Outline of the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030) for National Economic and Social Development of the People’s Republic of China Technical assistance to "Understanding Chinese Legal Reform (EUCLERA) 2025-2030" Table of Contents Part One Striving to Open up New Horizons for Chinese Modernization Chapter 1 The Development Environment Chapter 2 Guiding Principles Chapter 3 Main Objectives Part Two Building of a Modern Industrial System and Consolidation of the Foundations of the Real Economy Chapter 4 Upgrading of Traditional Industries Chapter 5 Nurture of Emerging Industries and Industries of the Future Chapter 6 High-Quality, Efficient Development of the Services Sector Chapter 7 Development of a Modern Infrastructure System Part Three Acceleration of High-Level Technology Self-Reliance and Self-Strengthening as a Forerunner of New Quality Productive Forces Chapter 8 Advancement in Original Innovation and Key Core Technologies Chapter 9 Improvement of Systemic Innovation Chapter 10 Enhanced Dominant Position of Enterprises in Science and Technology Innovation Chapter 11 Integrated Advancement of Education, Science and Technology, and Talent Development Part Four Advancement of Digital China and Elevation of Digital-Intelligent Development Chapter 12 Strengthened Efficient Supply of Computing Power, Algorithms, and Data Chapter 13 Advancement of the Comprehensive Empowerment of Digital-Intelligent Technologies Chapter 14 Building of a Healthy and Well-Organized Development Ecosystem Part Five Building of a Strong Domestic Market and Accelerated Construction of a New Development Paradigm Chapter 15 Vigorous Expansion of Consumption Chapter 16 Expansion of Effective Investment Chapter 17 In-Depth Advancement of a Unified National Market Part Six Accelerated Development of a High-Standard Socialist Market Economy System and Enhancement of the Momentum for High-Quality Development Chapter 18 Full Unleashing of the Vitality for All Types of Business Entities Chapter 19 Accelerated Improvement of the System and Mechanisms for Market-Oriented Technical assistance to "Understanding Chinese Legal Reform (EUCLERA) 2025-2030" Factor Allocation Chapter 20 Improvement of the Macroeconomic Governance System Part Seven Expansion of High-Standard Opening-up for a New Chapter of Win-Win Cooperation Chapter 21 Active Expansion of Autonomous Opening-up Chapter 22 Higher Quality and Level of Trade and Investment Cooperation Chapter 23 High-Quality Co-building of the Belt and Road Chapter 24 Development of a Community with a Shared Future for Mankind Part Eight Accelerated Modernization of Agriculture and Rural Areas and Sound Advancement of All-Round Rural Revitalization Chapter 25 Enhancement of Overall Production Capacity, Quality, and Performance of Agriculture Chapter 26 Advancement of a Beautiful and Harmonious Countryside for People to Live and Work in Chapter 27 Improvement of the Effectiveness of Policies Aimed at Strengthening Agriculture, Benefiting Farmers, and Enriching Rural Areas Part Nine Optimization of the Regional Economic Layout and Promotion of Coordinated Regional Development Chapter 28 Enhancement of the Coordinated Regional Development Chapter 29 Promotion of Interconnected Development Between Regions Chapter 30 Optimization of the Territorial Space Development Chapter 31 In-Depth Advancement of People-Centered New Urbanization Chapter 32 Strengthening of Marine Development, Utilization, and Protection Part Ten Promotion of the Cultural Innovation and Creativity of the Chinese Nation and the Flourishing Development of Socialist Culture Chapter 33 Promotion and Practice of the Core Socialist Values Chapter 34 Vigorous Development and Prosperity of Cultural Undertakings Chapter 35 Accelerated Development of the Cultural Industry Chapter 36 Improvement of the Communication and Influence of Chinese Civilization Part Eleven Improvement of the Population Development Strategy and Promotion of High- Quality Population Development Chapter 37 Building of a Birth-Friendly Society Chapter 38 Development of Education that Meets the People’s Expectations Chapter 39 Accelerated Building of a Healthy China Technical assistance to "Understanding Chinese Legal Reform (EUCLERA) 2025-2030" Chapter 40 Active Response to Population Ageing Part Twelve Safeguarding and Improvement of People’s Livelihoods and Promotion of Common Prosperity Chapter 41 Promotion of High-Quality and Full Employment Chapter 42 Improvement of the Income Distribution System Chapter 43 Improvement of the Social Security System Chapter 44 High-Quality Development of the Real Estate Sector Chapter 45 Steady Advancement of the Equalization of Basic Public Services Chapter 46 Safeguarding of Development Rights and Interests for All Groups Part Thirteen Accelerated Comprehensive Green Transition of Economic and Social Development for Building a Beautiful China Chapter 47 Active and Prudent Advancement Towards Carbon Peaking Chapter 48 Continuous Improvement of Environmental Quality Chapter 49 Enhanced Diversity, Stability, and Sustainability of Ecosystems Chapter 50 Accelerated Formation of Green Production and Living Patterns Part Fourteen Modernization of the National Security System and Capacity to Build a Peaceful China at a Higher Level Chapter 51 Enhanced National Security System and Capacity Building Chapter 52 Safeguarding of National Economic Security Chapter 53 Improvement of Public Safety Governance Chapter 54 Improvement of the Social Governance System Part Fifteen Achieving the Centenary Goals of the People’s Liberation Army and Modernizing National Defense and the Armed Forces Chapter 55 Enhancement of the Quality and Effectiveness of National Defense and Military Modernization Chapter 56 Consolidation and Enhancement of the Integrated National Strategies and Strategic Capabilities Part Sixteen Development of Whole-Process People’s Democracy and Improvement of the Socialist Rule-of-Law System with Chinese Characteristics Chapter 57 Advancement of Socialist Democracy Chapter 58 Advancement of the Comprehensive Rule of Law Part Seventeen Upholding and Improvement of the Policy of One Country, Two Systems and Advancement of National Reunification Chapter 59 Promotion of Long-Term Prosperity and Stability in Hong Kong and Macao Technical assistance to "Understanding Chinese Legal Reform (EUCLERA) 2025-2030" Chapter 60 Peaceful Development of Cross-Strait Relations and Advancement of National Reunification Part Eighteen Enhancement of Guarantee for Plan Implementation Chapter 61 Upholding and Strengthening of the Centralized and Unified Leadership of the Party Central Committee Chapter 62 Improvement of the Full-Cycle Advancement Mechanisms for Plan Implementation Technical assistance to "Understanding Chinese Legal Reform (EUCLERA) 2025-2030" The Outline of the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030) for National Economic and Social Development of the People’s Republic of China, compiled in accordance with the Recommendations of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Formulating the 15th Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development, sets out the strategic intentions of the state, identifies the priorities of government work, and provides guidance and regulation for the conduct of social actors. It constitutes the grand blueprint for comprehensively building a modern socialist country during the 15th Five- Year Plan period and serves as the shared program of action for people of all ethnic groups throughout the country. Part One Striving to Open up New Horizons for Chinese Modernization The 15th Five-Year Plan period is a critical stage in building on past success to break new ground for basically realizing socialist modernization and a critical period for us to reinforce the foundations and push ahead on all fronts. We must make unremitting endeavor and sustained struggle to secure major breakthroughs in strategic tasks of overall importance to Chinese modernization, so that we can build a stronger foundation for basically realizing socialist modernization. Chapter 1 The Development Environment Standing at a new starting point, China sees a more solid development foundation, while the development environment is undergoing profound and intricate changes, and new opportunities and challenges are rising alike. Section 1 Major Achievements in China’s Development During the 14th Five-Year Plan Period The 14th Five-Year Plan period marked the inaugural stage of the new journey toward building a modern socialist country in all respects. It has covered a momentous and extraordinary period in China’s development. In the face of a complicated international landscape and the challenging domestic tasks of advancing reform, promoting development, and ensuring stability, the CPC Central Committee with 6 Comrade Xi Jinping at its core has united the entire Party and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups and led them in meeting difficulties head-on and forging ahead with determination. This has allowed us to withstand the severe shocks from the once-in-a- century Covid-19 pandemic, respond effectively to a raft of major risks and challenges, and secure significant new achievements in the cause of the Party and the country. The guiding role of the new development philosophy was fully demonstrated. Significant strides were made in constructing the new development paradigm, new quality productive forces grew steadily, and high-quality development was advanced with determination. We have maintained steady economic growth and made solid headway, with the gross domestic product (GDP) surpassing 140 trillion yuan. Major progress was achieved in building a modern industrial system, infrastructure was enhanced to provide stronger support, value-added output of core digital economy industries exceeded 10.5% of GDP, and urban, rural, and regional development became more balanced and coordinated. Scientific and technological innovation yielded abundant results. With total research and development (R&D) spending reaching 2.8% of GDP, we have mastered a number of major critical core technologies and attained significant original scientific and technological achievements. We have further advanced the comprehensive deepening of reform, continuously improved the institutional mechanisms for unswervingly consolidating and developing the public sector and unswervingly encouraging, supporting, and guiding the development of the non-public sector, made positive progress in building a unified national market, and further enhanced the effectiveness of macroeconomic governance. We have continuously expanded high-standard opening up, worked faster to build a new open-economy framework, and made solid progress in the high-quality joint construction of the Belt and Road. We have made substantial progress in developing whole-process people’s democracy and advanced law-based governance on all fronts to good effect. Cultural programs and industries have flourished, and people have enjoyed a wide range of cultural and intellectual products. Support for the public wellbeing has been reinforced, with per capita disposable income increased by an annual average of 5.4%, urban employment grew by a cumulative 62.42 million, the average years of education among 7 the working-age population reached 11.3 years, and average life expectancy rose to above 79 years. Our achievements in poverty alleviation have been consolidated and expanded. As the green and low-carbon transition accelerated, the ecological environment has continuously improved. Installed non-fossil energy generation capacity surpassed that of fossil fuel energy. The concentration of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in prefecture-level and above cities dropped to 28 micrograms per cubic meter. Over 90% of surface water bodies met or exceeded Grade III standards. Forest coverage exceeded 25%. We have increased our capacity to safeguard national security. Grain output surpassed the milestone of 1.4 trillion jin (700 million tons). We have enhanced social governance and maintained overall social stability. Major headway has been made in strengthening national defense and military development. The policy of One Country, Two Systems has been further advanced in practice. Progress has been secured on all fronts of major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics. Impressive results have been achieved in the Party’s full and rigorous self-governance, and the fight against corruption has been stepped up. Our Party’s creativity, cohesion, and ability have all been markedly strengthened. The principal objectives and tasks of the 14th Five-Year Plan have been accomplished with success. With China reaching new heights in economic, scientific and technological, national defense, and composite national strength, we have made solid new strides in advancing Chinese modernization and gotten off to a good start on our new journey toward the Second Centenary Goal. We owe all these remarkable achievements to the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping at its core, which has been at the helm charting the course, to Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, which has provided sound guidance to advance our cause, and to the concerted efforts and united struggle of the entire Party, the entire military, and people of all ethnic groups throughout the country. Section 2 Profound and Intricate Changes in China’s Development Environment During the 15th Five-Year Plan Period Relations between major countries have an important bearing on the international 8 landscape, the dynamics of which will in turn profoundly affect our domestic development. China is in a period of development where strategic opportunities exist alongside risks and challenges, and uncertainties and unforeseen factors are rising. Internationally, momentous changes of a magnitude unseen in a century are unfolding across the world at a faster pace. A profound shift is taking place in the international balance of power, and breakthroughs are accelerating in the new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation. All this has created positive factors enabling China to make proactive moves in the international arena and shape a favorable external environment. Meanwhile, the changes we see in the world are intertwined with turbulence, turmoil continues to mount, geopolitical conflicts flare up all too easily and frequently, global governance deficits continue to build up, and security concerns become more prominent. Unilateralism and protectionism are on the rise, and hegemony and power politics pose greater threats. The international economic and trade order is facing grave challenges, and global economic growth lacks steam with risks accumulating. Major-country rivalry is growing more intricate and intense than ever, and the uncertainty and instability of the external environment are significantly increasing. Domestically, China’s economy has a solid foundation, multiple advantages, strong resilience, and great potential. The conditions for and underlying trend of long-term growth remain unchanged. Increasingly, we are seeing the strengths of socialism with Chinese characteristics, China’s enormous market, its complete industrial system, and its abundant human resources all coming to the fore. However, development imbalances and inadequacies remain prominent. Cyclical, structural, and institutional issues are intertwined. Effective demand is sluggish, and the contradiction between strong supply and weak demand is acute. There are bottlenecks and blockages impeding the domestic circulation. The task of transitioning to new growth drivers is formidable, and agricultural and rural modernization is lagging behind. We see considerable pressure weighing on employment and personal income growth, and gaps and weak links still exist in our work to ensure public wellbeing. Changes in the demographic structure are posing new challenges for economic development and social governance, and risks and hidden dangers persist in some key areas. The tasks of preventing and defusing risks in real 9 estate, local government debt, and small and medium-sized financial institutions remain heavy. Changes engender opportunities, and challenges bolster morale. Facing volatile international developments and all manner of risks and challenges, we must acquire a deep understanding of the decisive significance of establishing Comrade Xi Jinping’s core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and of establishing the guiding role of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. We must become more conscious of the need to maintain political integrity, think in big-picture terms, follow the leadership core, and keep in alignment with the central Party leadership. We must stay confident in the path, theory, system, and culture of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and uphold Comrade Xi Jinping’s core position on the Party Central Committee and in the Party as a whole and uphold the Central Committee’s authority and its centralized, unified leadership. We must maintain strategic resolve and enhance our confidence of success. We must proactively identify, respond to, and steer changes, demonstrate the courage and competence to carry forward our struggle, and dare to brave high winds, choppy waters, and even dangerous storms. We must seize the historical initiative to overcome difficulties, combat risks, and confront challenges, and focus on managing our own affairs well. We must look at the big picture and make meticulous arrangements, consolidate and expand our advantages, eliminate bottlenecks, and strengthen weak links, so that we can secure strategic initiative in fierce international competition and combat all the uncertainties with the certainty of high-quality development. With all these efforts, we will write yet another chapter on the miracles of rapid economic growth and long-term social stability and strive to open up new horizons for Chinese modernization. Chapter 2 Guiding Principles To advance economic and social development during the 15th Five-Year Plan period, we must firmly grasp the following guiding philosophies and core principles. Section 1 Guiding Philosophy We must stay committed to Marxism-Leninism, Mao Zedong Thought, Deng 10 Xiaoping Theory, the Theory of Three Represents, and the Scientific Outlook on Development and fully implement Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era. We must thoroughly apply the guiding principles from the Party’s 20th National Congress and the plenary sessions of the 20th CPC Central Committee and conscientiously carry out the decisions and arrangements of the Fourth Plenary Session of the 20th CPC Central Committee. We must keep focused on realizing the Second Centenary Goal of building China into a great modern socialist country in all respects and advancing the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through Chinese modernization. We must ensure coordinated implementation of the Five-Sphere Integrated Plan and the Four-Pronged Comprehensive Strategy. Keeping in mind both domestic and international imperatives, we must fully and faithfully apply the new development philosophy on all fronts, move faster to foster a new development paradigm, and adhere to the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability. We will continue to pursue economic development as our central task, with high-quality development as our focus, reform and innovation as the fundamental driving force, meeting the people’s ever-growing aspirations for a better life as the fundamental goal, and full and rigorous Party self-governance as the fundamental underpinning for all our efforts. We will promote higher-quality economic growth while achieving an appropriate increase in economic output and make solid headway in promoting well- rounded personal development and common prosperity for all. All of this will allow us to secure decisive progress toward basically realizing socialist modernization. Section 2 Core Principles — Upholding the Party’s overall leadership. We must resolutely uphold the Party Central Committee’s authority and its centralized, unified leadership and improve the Party’s ability to chart the course, make overall plans, design policies, and promote reform. We must uphold the Party’s leadership in all areas and at all stages of economic and social development, to fundamentally guarantee China’s socialist modernization drive. — Putting people first. We must respect the principal position of the people, rely closely on the people, protect their fundamental interests, and promote social fairness and 11 justice. We will focus on ensuring and improving people’s wellbeing through development and open up greater space for development in the course of satisfying their needs. We will promote coordinated economic and social development, ensure that material progress and cultural-ethical progress reinforce each other, and see it that the gains of modernization benefit all the people more broadly and equitably. — Pursuing high-quality development. We will guide development by the new development philosophy. We will develop new quality productive forces in line with local conditions, strengthen the domestic economic circulation, facilitate unimpeded domestic and international economic flows. We will take coordinated steps to expand domestic demand and deepen supply-side structural reform, move faster to foster new growth drivers, and improve and upgrade the economic structure. We will optimize the allocation of new resources while making best of existing ones. This will help drive sustained, sound economic development and all-around social progress. — Comprehensively deepening reform. With a focus on removing institutional barriers that impede high-quality development, we must advance in-depth reform and expand high-standard opening up. We will work to better adapt the relations of production to the productive forces, the superstructure to the economic base, and national governance to social development and make sustained efforts to increase development momentum and boost the vitality of our society. — Promoting both an effective market and a well-functioning government. We will see that the market plays the decisive role in resource allocation and that the government better fulfils its role. We will establish a unified, open, competitive, and orderly market system, develop a credit-based economy under the rule of law, and foster a first-rate business environment that is market-oriented, law-based, and internationalized. This will enable us to create an economic order defined by both market vitality and effective regulation. — Ensuring both development and security. It is essential for us to consolidate security in the course of development and pursue development in a secure environment. We must better prepare ourselves for worst-case scenarios, effectively prevent and mitigate all kinds of risks, and enhance the resilience of our economy and society, to safeguard 12 China’s new development paradigm with its new security architecture. Chapter 3 Main Objectives During the 15th Five-Year Plan period, we will strive to achieve the following objectives in economic and social development: — Significant progress will be made in achieving high-quality development. Based on structural optimisation and quality improvement, we will maintain GDP growth within a reasonable range, with annual targets set in light of prevailing conditions, laying a solid foundation for doubling per capita GDP from 2020 levels and reaching the level of moderately developed countries by 2035. Total factor productivity will rise steadily, and the contribution of scientific and technological advancement and institutional innovation to economic growth will continuously increase. The household final consumption rate will increase markedly, domestic demand will play a stronger role as the principal driver of growth, and the economic growth potential will be fully unleashed. We will advance the development of a unified national market in depth, further leveraging the advantages of China’s supersized market. Significant progress will be made in new industrialisation, informatisation, urbanisation, and agricultural modernisation. Efforts will be made to enhance the integrity, advancement, and security of the modern industrial system at a faster pace, promote the coordinated urban-rural regional development, and make breakthroughs in fostering new quality productive forces, establishing a new development paradigm, and building a modernised economic system. — The level of self-reliance and strength in science and technology will be significantly improved. We will improve the overall performance of the national innovation system markedly with R&D expenditure across society growing by over seven percent annually. A coordinated framework for the integrated development of education, science and technology, and talent will take basic shape. Basic research and original innovation capabilities will be significantly strengthened, and key core technologies in major fields will achieve rapid breakthroughs, seeing a number of major original, landmark, and leading scientific and technological achievements delivered and securing a leading or co-leading position globally in more fields. We will deeply integrate 13 technological and industrial innovation, with innovation-driven development playing a more pronounced role. — Breakthroughs will be achieved in further deepening reform across the board. We will advance the modernisation of China’s system and capacity for governance in depth. The socialist market economy will be further improved, and systems and mechanisms for high-standard opening-up will become more robust. A market environment that is fairer and more dynamic will take shape at a faster pace. Whole-process people’s democracy will see further institutionalisation, standardisation, and procedural development. Greater progress will be made in building a socialist country under the rule of law. — Social civilisation will be notably enhanced. We will build stronger cultural confidence. Mainstream public opinion will be further consolidated and expanded. Core socialist values will be widely practiced. Cultural creativity and innovation vitality of the entire nation will be continually stimulated, making the people’s intellectual and cultural life richer. The cohesion of the Chinese nation and the influence of Chinese culture will increase significantly, resulting in China’s cultural soft power continuing to grow. — The quality of people’s life will be continuously improved. We will see generally stable employment, with the surveyed urban unemployment rate kept below 5.5 percent. New progress will be made toward achieving fuller and higher-quality employment. We will make sure synchronous growth in personal income and economic growth, as well as an aligned increase in labour remuneration and gains in labour productivity. We will optimize the distribution structure and steadily expand the middle- income group. The average years of schooling for the working-age population will rise to 11.7 years. Better services will be provided to meet public demand for elderly care and childcare. Average life expectancy will increase to 80 years. We will develop a more robust and sustainable social security system and significantly enhance the equalisation of basic public services. — New and major progress will be made in the Beautiful China Initiative. We will largely establish green modes of production and living, with carbon peaking goals achieved on schedule and carbon dioxide emissions per unit of GDP reduced by 17 14 percent. A clean, low-carbon, safe, and efficient new energy system will be initially established. We will improve overall environmental quality comprehensively, with a continuous decline in total emissions of major pollutants. The average concentration of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) in cities at and above the prefectural level will fall below 27 micrograms per cubic meter. The proportion of surface water reaching Grade III or above will rise to 85 percent. Forest coverage will reach 25.8 percent. Efforts will be made to enhance the diversity, stability, and sustainability of ecosystems. — The national security barrier will be further consolidated. We will strengthen national security systems and capacities. Comprehensive grain production capacity will reach around 1.45 trillion jin (725 million tonnes), and comprehensive energy production capacity will reach 5.8 billion tonnes of standard coal. We will effectively prevent and defuse risks in key areas. Social governance and public safety governance will be significantly enhanced. Major and particularly serious accidents will be effectively curbed. Capacity for disaster prevention and mitigation will be markedly improved. We will work to realize the Centenary Goal of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on schedule and make solid progress in building a Peaceful China at a higher level. Building on this foundation and through another five years of sustained effort, by 2035, we will see a substantial leap in its economic, scientific and technological, and national defence capabilities, as well as its overall national strength and international influence. We will see to it that our per capita GDP reaches the level of moderately developed countries, and our people enjoy a happier and better life, basically realizing socialist modernisation. 15 Box 1: Major Indicators for Economic and Social Development During the 15th Five-Year Plan Period Category Indicator 2025 2030 Annual/Cumulativ Attribute e Economic 1. GDP Growth (%) 5 — To be kept within a Anticipatory Developmen reasonable range; t annual targets set in light of conditions 2. Growth of Labour 6.1 — Higher than GDP Anticipatory Productivity (%) growth 3. Urbanisation Rate of 67.9 71 — Anticipatory Permanent Residents (%) Innovation- 4. Growth of R&D Expenditure 9.1 — ＞7 Anticipatory Driven Across Society (%) Developmen 5. High-Value Invention Patents 16 ＞22 — Anticipatory t per 10,000 People (units) 6. Value Added of Core 10.5* 12.5 — Anticipatory Industries of the Digital Economy as % of GDP (%) People’s 7. Surveyed Urban Surveyed — ＜5.5 Anticipatory Wellbeing Unemployment Rate (%) Urban Unemploy ment Rate (%) 8. Growth of Per Capita Growth of — In step with GDP Anticipatory Disposable Income (%) Per Capita growth Disposable Income (%) 9. Average Years of Schooling 11.3 11.7 — Binding for Working-Age Population (years) 10. Practicing Practicin 3.1 3.7 — Anticipatory Physicians/Registere g 16 d Nurses per 1,000 Physician People s Registere 4.3 5.1 — d Nurses 11. Proportion of Nursing Beds 68 73 — Anticipatory in Elderly Care Institutions (%) 12. Increase in Nursery — — 〔6〕 Anticipatory Enrolment Rate for Children Under Age 3 (percentage points) 13. Average Life Expectancy 79.25 80 — Anticipatory (years) Green and14. Reduction in CO₂ Emissions 〔17.7〕 — 〔17〕 Binding Low-Carbon per Unit of GDP (%) Developmen 15. Non-Fossil Energy as % of 21.7 25 — Binding t Total Energy Consumption (%) 16. PM2.5 Concentration in 28 ＜27 — Binding Cities at or Above Prefectural Level (μg/m³) 17. Proportion of Surface Water 80 85 — Binding at or Above Grade III (%) 18. Forest Coverage Rate (%) 25.1* 25.8 — Binding Security and19. Comprehensive Grain 1.39 Around — Binding Safeguards Production Capacity (trillion jin) 1.45 20. Comprehensive Energy 51.3 58 — Binding Production Capacity (billion tonnes of standard coal) Notes: ① Figures in brackets 〔〕 indicate five-year cumulative totals. ② Data marked with* are for 2024. ③ Growth rate of R&D expenditure across society is calculated at constant prices. ④ Comprehensive grain production capacity refers to the stable level of grain output that can be reliably achieved. Part Two Building of a Modern Industrial System and Consolidation of the Foundations of the Real Economy 17 We will maintain a firm focus on the real economy as the foundation of economic development, continue to pursue smart, green, and integrated development, and work faster to build China into a country strong in manufacturing, quality, aerospace, transportation, and cyber power. The share of manufacturing in the national economy will be kept at an appropriate level, and a modernized industrial system will be developed with advanced manufacturing as the backbone. Chapter 4 Upgrading of Traditional Industries We will strengthen national standard-based guidance and digital, intelligent, and green technology-driven empowerment, and apply environmental and safety institutional constraints to consolidate and enhance the position and competitiveness of China’s industries in the global industrial division of labor. Section 1 Quality Upgrading of Key Industries We will pursue a guided, sector-specific approach to promote the resolution of structural contradictions in key industries and accelerate upgrading toward the mid-to- high end. Structural adjustment in the steel, petrochemical, and shipbuilding industries will be driven forward, and premium steel product bases, world-class petrochemical bases, and high-end shipbuilding and marine engineering equipment bases will be strengthened. Efforts will be made to promote full-value-chain innovation in electronic information and mechanical equipment and develop high-end and in-demand products to accelerate breakthroughs in critical spare parts, components, and specialty materials. The supply of quality products in the light industry and textiles will be expanded. Competitiveness in the construction industry will be consolidated and enhanced. We will promote technological transformation and upgrading to shift toward intelligent, green, and service-oriented development in the manufacturing sector and work faster to transform industrial models and enterprises’ organizational forms. Advanced manufacturing clusters will be developed, and national new-type industrialization demonstration zones will be built. Comprehensive quality management will be strengthened. The Manufacturing Excellence Quality Initiative will be deeply implemented with reinforced quality infrastructure capabilities. Standards will be 18 updated to ensure norms on safety, environmental protection, energy efficiency, and quality will be strictly enforced. Market-based mergers and restructuring will be promoted, and the orderly exit of backward and inefficient production capacity will be driven forward. Section 2 More Self-Supporting and Risk-Resilient Industrial Chains We will implement industrial foundation reengineering projects to accelerate breakthroughs in a range of major foundational technologies, processes, and products, and advance the innovative application of advanced materials and cross-scale manufacturing. The research projects on major technologies and equipment will be implemented to achieve breakthroughs in a number of landmark major technical equipment items. We will promote rolling implementation of high-quality development initiatives for key industrial chains in the manufacturing sector, establish and improve risk assessment and response mechanisms for industrial chain and supply chain security, continuously strengthen competitive advantages in rare earths, rare metals, and superhard materials, and enhance the high-quality and high-efficiency comprehensive utilization of important strategic minerals. The construction of the national strategic hinterland and back-up capacity for key industries will be advanced, and strategic industrial bases, material reserve bases, and infrastructure will be built. A survey system for industrial foundation competitiveness will be established, and R&D support capacity for common technologies will be strengthened. Policy for the first-unit (set), first-batch, and first-version application will be improved. Section 3 Established Mechanisms for Sound and Orderly Industrial Development We will improve the industrial regulation and policy system, optimize the industrial layout, and strengthen coordinated factor support. Production capacity monitoring and early-warning mechanisms will be improved, and measures, including planning guidance, capacity regulation, price governance, and industry self-discipline, will be adopted to comprehensively address vicious competition. The transformation of industrial policy toward universality and functionality will be driven forward, and mechanisms for the formulation, implementation, information disclosure, evaluation and adjustment, and exit 19 of industrial policies will be improved. The tiered cultivation system for high-quality enterprises will be improved, and the growth of specialized, refined, unique, and innovative (SRUI) small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) will be promoted. We will reasonably reduce the overall costs of manufacturing and intensify medium- and long- term lending and credit loan support for technological innovation, digital and intelligent transformation, and green development in manufacturing. The manufacturing talent support plan and the professional and technical talent knowledge renewal initiative will be implemented to develop outstanding engineers, master craftspeople, and highly skilled talent. Box 2: Enhancement of Industrial Foundation Capabilities and Competitiveness 01 High-End New Materials We will accelerate innovative breakthroughs in high-end specialty steels, high- quality high-temperature alloys, ultra-high-purity metals, advanced ceramics, high- purity quartz materials, bio-based materials, advanced polymer materials, high- performance fibers and composite materials, and structure-function integrated materials. Quality upgrading in rare earth functional materials, rare metal materials, superhard materials, and lightweight high-strength alloys will be advanced. Research and application of frontier materials, including superconducting materials and metamaterials, will be strengthened. 02 Basic Spare Parts and Components We will accelerate the tackling of core basic spare parts, including high-speed precision bearings, high-parameter gears and transmission devices, high-reliability hydraulic, pneumatic, and sealing components, high-performance motors and control systems, and high-precision ball screws. A range of advanced general- purpose basic electronic components of connection, sensing, functional material, and optoelectronic types will be developed. 03 Foundational Software and Industrial Software Focusing on domestic operating systems, databases, middleware, programming 20 languages and compilers, development and testing tools, cloud computing software, and other foundational software, as well as R&D-and-design, production-control, and operations-management industrial software, we will promote technology tackling and results application across the full chain. 04 Industrial Machine Tools We will prioritize the development of high-end CNC machine tools and other processing equipment featuring high speed, high precision, and compound integration. The supporting capabilities of intelligent CNC systems, precision measurement, and functional components will be improved. 05 High-End Instruments and Meters We will strengthen R&D of instruments and meters for key industrial applications, including online high-efficiency intelligent inspection, extreme environment regulation and control, and high-performance flow measurement. Tackling of new- type metrological calibration instruments, including quantum metrology and in-situ metrology, will be advanced. 06 Major Technical Equipment We will advance the R&D, design, and manufacturing of large cruise ships and large LNG carriers, and the testing and application of CR450 high-speed Chinese- standard EMU trains. The R&D and industrialization of large-scale specialty smelting equipment, major petrochemical and chemical complete sets of equipment, and electronic specialized equipment will be driven forward. The development of the spectrum of gas turbines and high-head large-capacity hydraulic turbine-generator units will be accelerated. The R&D and application of high-end intelligent and hilly/mountainous-terrain-adapted agricultural machinery and equipment will be advanced. Chapter 5 Nurture of Emerging Industries and Industries of the Future We will strengthen the supply of source technologies, accelerate the development of application scenarios and ecosystems, cultivate more pillar and leading industries, and build new industrial development advantages. 21 Section 1 Development of Emerging Industries We will accelerate the development of strategic emerging industries, including next- generation information technology, new energy, new materials, intelligent connected new-energy vehicles, robotics, biopharmaceuticals, high-end equipment, and aerospace. Strategic emerging industry clusters will be built, tailored to local conditions with unique features and complementary advantages. Efforts will be made to develop several emerging pillar industries with high growth potential, high technology content, and wide penetration. The development space of the marine economy will be expanded, and the sound and orderly development of the low-altitude economy will be promoted. Demonstration initiatives will be carried out to extensively apply new technologies and products in new scenarios, beef up and open up more application scenarios, and scale up emerging industries at a faster pace. We will encourage the development of strategic products and services, advance the scaled and serialized development of domestically produced large aircraft, strengthen the innovative application of the BeiDou system, solidly advance key technology innovation in intelligent driving, new-type solar cells, and new-type energy storage, and support the clinical use of innovative drugs. Section 2 Forward-Looking Plans for Industries of the Future Targeting the key areas leading future development, we will build a full-chain cultivation system for industries of the future and foster new drivers of economic growth such as quantum technology, biomanufacturing, hydrogen and nuclear fusion power, brain-computer interfaces, embodied artificial intelligence (AI), and 6G mobile communications. The identification and dynamic adjustment of industries of the future will be strengthened, and the layout of foundational, frontier, and disruptive technologies will be reinforced. Mechanisms to increase funding and share risks for industries of the future will be established. Future industry development demonstration initiatives will be organized and implemented. Efforts will be made to explore diverse technology roadmaps, typical application scenarios, feasible business models, and market regulation rules. Several national future industry research institutes and concept validation centers will be deployed, and future industry pioneer zones will be built in 22 regions with outstanding science and education resource advantages and strong industrial foundations. Section 3 Improvement of the Innovation and Development Ecosystem for Industries We will vigorously build a market environment and policy system conducive to the incubation and growth of emerging industries. We will launch industrial innovation projects, optimize organizational model and evaluation system for strategic product and technology innovation, and make integrated moves to construct innovation facilities, advance technological R&D, and promote product upgrading. The intellectual property protection system in emerging fields will be enhanced, the public service system for intellectual property and the technology transaction service platform network will be improved, and the new industry standardization pilot project will be implemented. We will nurture unicorn companies. Efficient and convenient market access mechanisms adapted to new forms of business will be established, and new regulatory models such as “sandbox regulation” and trigger-based regulation will be explored. The precision management of low-altitude airspace will be improved, and airworthiness certification capability will be strengthened, so as to reinforce low-altitude flight safety assurance. Legislation in emerging fields such as biopharmaceutical, intelligent driving and low- altitude economy will be advanced. Box 3: Cultivation of New Industries and New Tracks 01 Integrated Circuits We will refine and perfect mature process nodes, improve advanced process manufacturing capabilities, accelerate the development of key equipment, materials, and components, and develop high-performance processors and high-density memory. Quality upgrading of the wide-bandgap semiconductor industry will be accelerated, and the industrialization of ultra-wide-bandgap semiconductors, including gallium oxide and diamond, will be driven forward. Technology breakthroughs and applications in computing-storage integration, 3D integration, and photonic-electronic convergence will be advanced. 23 02 Embodied Intelligence We will plan and deploy embodied intelligence training environments in a coordinated manner, advance collaborative training and evolution integrating virtual and physical worlds, delve into physical AI, develop integrated large-brain/small- brain embodied models and algorithms, tackle key technologies for the main body and core components, and accelerate the upgrading and commercialization of humanoid robots and other physical form factor products. 03 Biomanufacturing We will achieve breakthroughs in key technologies, including enzyme preparations, intelligent design of biological germplasm, and intelligent fermentation. The innovative application of biological breeding, biochemicals, biopharmaceuticals, and bioenergy will be advanced. R&D and application of cell and gene therapy drugs, antibody drugs, nucleic acid drugs, and radiopharmaceuticals will be accelerated, and emergency vaccine and drug R&D-production-use capacity will be improved. 04 New-Type Batteries We will accelerate the tackling of key materials, including high-capacity electrode materials, high-conductivity electrolyte materials, and composite current collectors. High-end manufacturing equipment and processes, including high-precision coating and high-speed stacking, will be developed. The application of high-safety, high- energy-density batteries in new intelligent terminals, new-type energy storage, and electric transportation will be expanded. 05 Commercial Aerospace We will advance R&D of high-power energy systems, general-purpose satellite- borne computers, lightweight launch vehicle structures, satellite-launch vehicle integrated design, and reusable launch vehicles, and improve the scaled production of satellite and launch vehicle products and commercial launch capacity. The R&D and application of technologies such as active space defense and swarm intelligent control will be strengthened, and space security situational awareness and risk prevention capabilities will be improved. 06 Domestically Produced Large Aircraft 24 We will advance C919 production capacity expansion and supply chain development, develop the C919 plateau variant and other serialized models, C909 derivative variants, and new-energy aircraft, and accelerate C929 technology tackling and CJ-1000A engine verification and application. 07 Low-Altitude Equipment We will accelerate the development of new low-altitude equipment, including heavy- lift fixed-wing UAVs and long-endurance vertical take-off and landing aircraft. Breakthroughs in key technologies, including intelligent flight and electric/hybrid propulsion systems, will be achieved. Low-altitude operations management and the R&D and application of low-cost UAV security defense technology products will be strengthened. 08 Green Hydrogen We will improve the equipment level for renewable energy hydrogen production, accelerate tackling and validation of economically viable and safe large-scale hydrogen storage and transportation technologies, optimize the layout of hydrogen energy infrastructure, drive the green hydrogen industrial chain toward green ammonia-methanol and sustainable aviation fuel, and expand hydrogen energy applications in transportation, power, and industry. 09 Brain-Computer Interfaces We will accelerate the tackling of key technologies, including novel electrodes and dedicated chips, signal encoding and decoding algorithms, and Chinese language corpus databases. The application of brain-computer interface products in brain disease diagnosis and treatment, motor rehabilitation therapy, and health monitoring will be driven forward. 10 High-End Medical Devices We will drive R&D breakthroughs and scaled application of new diagnostic and therapeutic equipment, including ultra-high-end CT, high-resolution MRI, radiotherapy systems, intelligent surgical robots, and life support devices. Novel implantable and interventional devices for major chronic disease rehabilitation, neural stimulation, and cardiovascular and orthopedic treatment will be developed. 25 Chapter 6 High-Quality, Efficient Development of the Services Sector We will carry out capacity-expanding and quality-upgrading initiatives in the service sector, deepen the reform and open the sector wider, and refine support policies to comprehensively improve its quality, efficiency, and competitiveness and better leverage its role in supporting industrial upgrading, meeting people’s livelihood needs, and driving employment expansion. Section 1 Advancement of Producer Services toward Greater Specialization and the Higher End of the Value Chain We will strengthen weak links across the full chain of producer services and promote the integration of modern services with advanced manufacturing and modern agriculture. Technology services will be vigorously developed. Efforts will be made to improve capabilities in R&D and design, intellectual property, technology commercialization, inspection, testing, and certification. Internationally benchmarked industrial design centers will be cultivated. Based on industrial cluster advantages, a number of common technology platforms, pilot verification platforms, and integrated, efficient quality infrastructure in each industry will be deployed. The comprehensive competitiveness of financial leasing, logistics and warehousing, and human resources services will be improved. Energy-saving, environmental, digital and intelligent transformation, and other services will grow, and the share of value-added services will increase. We will develop high-quality business services and high-level third-party professional institutions with enhanced credibility and international recognition. Section 2 Higher-Quality, More Diverse, and More Accessible Consumer Services We will adapt to the upgrading of residents’ consumption structure and actively develop inclusive, accessible, personalized, and diversified consumer services. Efforts will be made to fill gaps in inclusive services for elderly care, childcare, and health. Mechanisms for government service procurement, publicly built and privately operated model, and publicly supported and privately established model will be improved to support diverse actors in expanding service supply. The distinctive and high-quality development of wholesale, retail, accommodation, and catering will be encouraged, with 26 new forms of business and new models actively expanded to coordinate online-offline development. The quality of domestic services, property management, and express delivery will be improved. Community integrated service models will be innovated, and brand-based and standardized development will be driven forward. Based on industries with a broad reach, we will promote the integrated development of multiple service formats. Focusing on whole-population health, smart elderly care, culture and tourism, and in-home services, some new growth drivers in consumer services will be developed. Section 3 Improved Policy System for Services Sector Development We will relax market access in the services domain, create a broader range of quality market entities, deepen regulatory reform, and improve cross-departmental and cross- industry approval and regulatory models adapted to converging forms of business. High- standard opening-up of the services sector will be expanded to attract internationally renowned enterprises to invest and operate in China and expand overseas “manufacturing + services” business networks. Financing and land-use models for the services sector will be innovated. Inclusive service pricing mechanisms and supporting policies will be improved. The conversion of existing resources into service facilities will be encouraged. We will step up the development of service standards in such key areas as care for the elderly and children, and promote quality service commitment, certification, and labelling systems. The professional level of employees in the service sector will be improved, with skill evaluation mechanisms and credit systems optimized. Statistical monitoring systems for the services sector will be perfected. Chapter 7 Development of a Modern Infrastructure System We will uphold the principle of appropriate lead time, neither insufficient nor excessive. Infrastructure planning will be better coordinated to improve its layout and structure, drive integrated development, and ensure that infrastructure is safe, resilient, and sustainable. Section 1 Improvement of the Modern Integrated Transportation System We will advance gap-filling, chain-strengthening, and quality improvement by 27 strengthening cross-regional coordination and planning and multimodal integration, to comprehensively improve the overall efficiency of transportation infrastructure. We will improve the main framework of the national comprehensive three-dimensional transportation network with strategic trunk corridors of high quality built along coasts, borders, and rivers, as well as routes connecting Xinjiang and Xizang and the New Western Land-Sea Corridor. The “Eight Vertical and Eight Horizontal” high-speed railway main corridors and the national expressway network will be basically completed. Quality upgrading of inland high-grade waterways will be advanced, and world-class port clusters and airport clusters will be basically completed. Coverage and access for underserved areas will be strengthened with the upgrading and renovation of conventional-speed railways and ordinary national and provincial highways driven forward. Specifically, we will launch a new round of rural road improvement actions, strengthen railway and feeder airport construction in western regions, and improve road network layout in border areas. Nationally and internationally significant comprehensive transportation hub cities will be built. Construction of collection and distribution networks and station connections will be strengthened, and the national postal and express delivery hub system will be improved. We will enhance the diversity and resilience of international transportation routes. Cross-border transportation infrastructure interconnection will be promoted, and the sound and orderly development of international air cargo will be supported. Functional improvement will be coordinated with green, safe, and intelligent development. The renovation, upgrading, and maintenance management of transportation infrastructure will be advanced. Safety risk assessment and monitoring and early warning will be strengthened, and the highway safety and resilience enhancement initiative will be implemented. Efforts will be made to deepen the reform of the comprehensive transportation system, advance the railway system reform, and optimize the toll road policy. Box 4: National Comprehensive Three-Dimensional Transportation Network Construction 01 “Eight Vertical and Eight Horizontal” High-Speed Railway Main 28 Corridors We will complete the high-standard Yangtze River corridor, the Beijing-Kunming, Lanzhou (Xi’an)-Guangzhou, and Xiamen-Chongqing corridors and the Beijing- Shanghai auxiliary corridor, the Yichang-Changde segment of the Hohhot-Nanning High-speed Railway corridor, the Wenzhou-Fuzhou high-speed railway on the coastal corridor, the Fuyang-Huanggang High-speed Railway on the Beijing-Hong Kong (Taiwan) corridor, the Baotou (Yinchuan)-Haikou corridor including the Baotou- Ordos-Yulin High-speed Railway and the Zhanjiang-Haikou cross-sea ferry and related lines, the Taiyuan-Suide High-speed Railway on the Qingdao-Yinchuan corridor, and the Shanghai-Hangzhou High-speed Railway on the Shanghai- Kunming corridor. The Shanghai-Ningbo cross-sea corridor project will be advanced, and regional high-speed railway lines, including Yongzhou-Qingyuan- Guangzhou, will be built. 02 Conventional-Speed Railway Network We will advance with high standards the construction of the Ya’an-Linzhi section of the Sichuan-Xizang Railway, build the east and west sections of the Xinzang Railway, and carry out the electrification upgrading of the Golmud-Lhasa section of the Qinghai-Xizang Railway, as well as the Bomi-Ranwu railway project. Border railways, including Heihe-Wuyiling and Wenshan-Jingxi, will be built. The railway freight network initiative will be implemented. The Linhe-Hami railway capacity expansion project and other key Xinjiang coal outward transportation projects will be built, and the railway container transport network and multimodal transport system will be improved. Preliminary work on the Wenzhou-Wuyishan-Ji’an and Dali-Lijiang-Panzhihua railways will be advanced. 03 National Road Network We will build main lines, parallel lines, and connector lines of national expressways, including Beijing-Harbin, Beijing-Hong Kong-Macau, Shenyang-Haikou, Changchun-Shenzhen, and Lanzhou-Haikou, as well as expressways such as Kuytun-Dushanzi-Kuqa. Safety and resilience enhancement of key sections of existing national expressways, including Beijing-Kunming, Beijing-Taiwan, Shanghai-Chengdu, Lianyungang-Khorgas, Xiamen-Chengdu, Baotou-Maoming, 29 Yinchuan-Kunming, and Hangzhou-Ruili, will be advanced. G219 and G331 strategic border land trunk corridors will be fully opened, and border highway parallel lines and border port connector roads will be built. Construction of the G228 coastal trunk corridor will be advanced, and G109, G317, G318, and other Xinjiang-Xizang trunk corridors will be upgraded and renovated. 04 Coastal Ports We will optimize the functional layout of world-class port clusters in the Bohai Rim, Yangtze River Delta, and Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, advance port cluster consolidation and integrated development in an orderly manner, and build container terminal projects at Yangshan Port (north side of Xiaoyangshan), Ningbo-Zhoushan Port (Liuheng area), Guangzhou Port (Nansha area), Xiamen Port (Xiang’an area), and Qingdao Port (Dongjiakou area). The Beibu Gulf international gateway port and the Yangpu regional international container hub port will be upgraded and renovated. 05 High-Grade Inland Waterways We will build the Three Gorges new waterway and improve navigability on the Yangtze River main channel. The Xijiang main channel waterway will be built, and the high-grade waterway network in the Yangtze River Delta and Pearl River Delta will be optimized. The quality improvement and renovation of the Beijing-Hangzhou Grand Canal and Huai River main channel will be implemented, and high-grade waterways on the Han River and other major Yangtze River tributaries will be built. 06 Modern Airport System We will upgrade the capacity of world-class airport clusters in the Beijing-Tianjin- Hebei region, the Yangtze River Delta, the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, and the Chengdu-Chongqing region, complete the new airports in Dalian and Xiamen, build new airports in Guangzhou and Nantong, and advance preliminary work on new airports in Chongqing and Sanya. Expansion and renovation projects at hub airports in Shenyang, Changchun, Nanjing, Hangzhou, Wenzhou, and Zhengzhou will be implemented. Feeder airport projects, including the relocation of Yanji and Yining airports, will be advanced. 30 Section 2 Vigorous Construction of New Energy Infrastructure We will deeply implement the new energy security strategy, accelerate the construction of a new energy system that is clean, low-carbon, safe, and efficient, and build China into a strong nation in energy. Safe, reliable, and orderly substitution of fossil fuels with non-fossil energy will be advanced. A multi-energy mix of wind, solar, hydro, and nuclear will be adhered to, and an action plan to double the use of non-fossil energy in ten years will be implemented. We will coordinate local consumption and outward transmission, build clean energy bases such as wind and PV bases in the Three-North Regions, an integrated hydro-wind-solar base in Southwest China, coastal nuclear power, and offshore wind power, strengthen the nearby development and utilization of distributed energy, plan and develop green hydrogen-ammonia-methanol, and actively advance solar thermal power generation and geothermal energy utilization. Clean and efficient utilization of fossil fuels will be strengthened, and coal-power transformation and upgrading and scattered coal substitution will be advanced. We will vigorously build a new power system, comprehensively improve the complementarity and safe resilience of the power system, optimize national power flow directions and cross-regional corridor layout, accelerate smart grid construction, improve urban and rural distribution networks, scientifically deploy pumped-storage hydropower, and vigorously develop new-type energy storage. End-use electrification levels will be improved, and green and low- carbon energy consumption will be driven forward. A unified national electricity market system will be basically completed, and the nationwide integrated network operation and dispatch mechanism for oil and gas will be improved. Box 5: New Energy Infrastructure Construction 01 Major Hydropower and Integrated Hydro-Wind-Solar Bases We will advance the construction of hydropower projects in the lower reaches of the Yarlung Tsangpo River in a safe and orderly manner and promote the construction of integrated hydro-wind-solar bases in the Yalong River, the upper reaches of the Jinsha River, the upper reaches of the Lancang River, and the southeastern Xizang (Yucha) basin. Hydropower stations such as the Ciha Gorge will be developed. 31 Feasibility assessments on the hydropower planning of the Nujiang River basin will be conducted. A number of pumped-storage power stations in areas with good site resources and high load regulation needs will be built to add approximately 100 million kilowatts of installed capacity. 02 New Energy Bases in Desert Areas, the Gobi, and Other Arid Areas With a focus on the Kubuqi, Ulan Buh, Tengger, and Badain Jaran deserts, supplemented by other desert areas, the Gobi, and arid areas, large-scale wind and solar power bases will be built primarily for power transmission. We will continue to promote the construction of new energy bases in Xinjiang, the upper reaches of the Yellow River, the Hexi Corridor, the “U-shaped bend” of the Yellow River, northern Hebei, and the Songliao Basin. 03 Offshore Wind Power Bases We will build offshore wind power bases in the Bohai Sea, Yellow Sea, East China Sea, and South China Sea, advance deep-sea offshore wind development in a regulated and orderly manner, and bring cumulative grid-connected installed offshore wind capacity to 100 GW or above. 04 Coastal Nuclear Power We will advance coastal nuclear power construction in an active, safe, and orderly manner, bringing operating nuclear power installed capacity to approximately 110 GW. The comprehensive utilization of nuclear energy adapted to local conditions will be promoted. The small, pressurized water reactor demonstration project will be completed, and fourth-generation reactor technology R&D and application demonstration will be prudently advanced. 05 Power Transmission Corridors We will build clean energy power outward transmission corridors for Inner Mongolia, Jilin, Heilongjiang, Gansu, Qinghai, Ningxia, Xinjiang, Xizang, and other provinces and autonomous regions, bringing West-to-East power transmission capacity to 420 GW or above. 06 Power Mutual Assistance Projects 32 We will strengthen mutual assistance in inter-provincial power and cross-grid operating zones, build power mutual assistance projects, including Fujian-Jiangxi, Anhui-Hubei, Shandong-Jiangsu, Chongqing-Guizhou, Hunan-Guizhou, and Hunan-Guangdong, and promote optimal allocation of power resources. 07 Natural Gas Pipeline Networks We will build the China-Russia Far East Natural Gas Pipeline and the Sichuan-to- East China Gas Pipeline Phase II, and advance preliminary work on the China-Russia Central Line Natural Gas Pipeline. Section 3 Acceleration of a Modern Water Network Construction We will strengthen the construction of the national water network and enhance our capacity to prevent floods, coordinate the allocation of water resources, and ensure water supply in both urban and rural areas. Defense against basin-wide floods and localized disasters will be coordinated. Construction of flood-control reservoirs, river channels, and embankments, and flood detention and storage areas will be strengthened. Systematic management of small and medium-sized rivers and the reinforcement of dangerous and deficient reservoirs will be advanced. Flood prevention and evacuation capacity in areas of concentrated heavy rainfall will be enhanced. The cross-basin and cross-regional water resource allocation system will be improved, and the main framework and trunk conveyance and distribution channels of the national water network will be completed. Water supply and irrigation assurance will be strengthened. Integrated construction and renovation of large and medium-sized irrigation districts will be advanced. Construction of urban emergency backup water source projects will be accelerated. The ecological protection and management of rivers and lakes will be strengthened by advancing water source conservation and soil and water conservation to improve the self-restoration capacity of aquatic ecosystems. We will implement the groundwater protection and management action to progressively achieve a balance between extraction and recharge. Box 6: Construction of a Modern Water Network 33 01 Flood Control and Disaster Mitigation We will build key embankment reinforcement projects for the two lakes along the Yangtze River, the upstream Yellow River main channel embankment, the Huai River main channel flood detention zone, and the Hai River main channel flood control, and develop flood control reservoirs, including the Guxian Water Conservancy Hub on the Yellow River, Fujian Shangbaishi Water Conservancy Hub, and Guangdong Huangmaoxia reservoir projects. Feasibility assessments will be conducted for the Heishan Gorge Yellow River grand bridge and flood control projects at the Yongding River Guanting Gorge and Juma River Zhangfang. With northern regions as the focus, a rainstorm and flash flood disaster mitigation system will be developed. Construction of national flood detention and storage zones will be strengthened. 02 Major Water Diversion Projects We will build the South-to-North Water Diversion Eastern Route Phase II, the South- to-North Water Diversion Middle Route Yangtze River-Han River Replenishment project, Liaodong Peninsula water resource allocation, Sichuan’s Dadu River-Min River Diversion project, Yunnan’s Central Yunnan Water Diversion Phase II, Zhejiang’s Central Zhejiang Water Resource Allocation project, and Anhui’s Yangtze-to-Huaihe Water Diversion Phase II. Preliminary work on the western and southern Fujian water resource allocation project will be advanced. Feasibility assessments for the South-to-North Water Diversion Western Route will be conducted. 03 Water Supply and Irrigation We will advance integrated modern renovation of large-scale irrigation districts, including Anhui’s Pishihang, Sichuan’s Dujiangyan, Inner Mongolia’s Hetao, Xinjiang’s Yarkant River, and Shandong’s Weishan. Large and medium-sized irrigation districts, including Guangdong’s Leizhou Peninsula, Guangxi’s Yongbei, and Chongqing’s Yuitan, as well as water source reservoirs, including Shaanxi’s Jiaoyan and Guizhou’s Yulong, will be built. The Poyang Lake Water Conservancy Project will be developed to leverage its comprehensive ecological, water supply, and irrigation benefits. Feasibility assessments for the Dongting Lake and Chenglingji Water Conservancy Projects will be conducted. 34 Section 4 Construction of New Types of Infrastructure with Appropriate Forward Planning Oriented toward supporting industrial upgrading and digital and intelligent development, we will further develop new types of infrastructure and use them intensively and efficiently. Information and communications networks will be improved. The scaled deployment of 5G and gigabit optical networks will be deepened. The development of 5G-Advanced (5G-A), ten-gigabit optical networks, and 6G technology innovation will be advanced, and the autonomous iteration of mobile IoT will be driven forward. The “East Data and West Computing” Initiative will be deeply advanced to build a multi-level computing infrastructure system and a nationwide integrated computing network. The national blockchain network construction initiative will be implemented. Civil space infrastructure will be improved. The construction of satellite communications, navigation, and remote sensing systems will be coordinated. The constellation formation of low-orbit satellite internet will be accelerated. Digital and intelligent upgrading of transportation, energy, and water infrastructure will be driven forward. Box 7: New-Type Infrastructure Construction 01 Nationwide Integrated Computing Network We will build a next-generation supercomputing, general computing, and intelligent computing infrastructure system and actively develop public cloud services. A computing power monitoring and scheduling platform will be built, and standards and specifications for computing resource pooling, grid connection, monitoring, operation, and scheduling will be formulated and improved. 02 Satellite Internet We will coordinate and advance satellite internet constellation construction, improve launch, measurement and control, and security protection capabilities, and accelerate scaled application and international promotion of satellite internet and BeiDou in key industries and mass-market consumer sectors. The coordinated management of multi-user needs will be strengthened. The co-construction and data sharing of remote sensing satellites will be advanced. An integrated space-air- 35 ground comprehensive service system combining communications, navigation, sensing, and computing will be built. 03 Information and Communications Networks We will advance the deployment and application of 1000,000 50-gigabit passive optical network (50G-PON) ports. The scaled commercial launch of 5G-A mobile communications networks will be accelerated. 500,000 5G-A base stations will be built, and 6G technology R&D, standard development, and application verification will be strengthened. Backbone transmission network capabilities will be improved, and international cooperation on submarine cable construction will be advanced. Universal telecommunications services will be implemented to improve broadband network coverage in border and remote areas. 04 Data Infrastructure We will build a data circulation and utilization infrastructure system and a data security protection platform featuring unified directory identification, identity authentication, and access management. Data annotation, circulation, delivery, and application bases, and a high-speed data transmission network will be deployed and built. 05 Low-Altitude Infrastructure Guided by scenario expansion, we will scientifically delineate low-altitude air routes and deploy take-off and landing, communication, navigation, monitoring, and meteorological infrastructure along routes. Construction of low-altitude intelligent networked systems and low-altitude safety protection capabilities in key areas and locations will be advanced. Part Three Acceleration of High-Level Technology Self- Reliance and Self-Strengthening as a Forerunner of New Quality Productive Forces We will seize the historic opportunity presented by the new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation to coordinate the building of a leading country 36 in education, science and technology, and talent, improve the overall effectiveness of the national innovation system, and comprehensively enhance independent innovation capabilities for a dominant position of technological development, thus driving deep integration of technological innovation and industrial innovation, and continuously generating new quality productive forces. Chapter 8 Advancement in Original Innovation and Key Core Technologies By upholding the combination of technology-driven and demand-pull approaches and the combination of building on strengths and addressing weaknesses, we will improve the new whole-of-nation system and drive the production of more landmark original achievements. Section 1 Victory in the Battle for Key Core Technologies Focusing on strategically critical domains and weak links in industrial and supply chains, we will adopt unconventional measures to drive decisive breakthroughs in full- chain key core technologies of such priorities as integrated circuits, machine tools, high- end instruments, basic software, advanced materials, and biomanufacturing. The demand-oriented mechanism for challenging tasks will be improved, with technology- economy security assessments carried out. Cross-domain and cross-disciplinary collaboration will be strengthened. The special talent deployment mechanism for major tasks will also be improved, with systems such as “open competition for key projects” and “race-track” selection refined. Funding approaches such as prize-based and ex- post subsidization will be explored. We will reinforce the practice of driving breakthroughs with practical applications and combining breakthroughs with practical applications, advance technology R&D, achievement commercialization, standard development, and industrial cultivation in an integrated manner, and accelerate the application of breakthroughs and product iteration and upgrading. Section 2 Enhancement of Science and Technology Deployment in Strategic Frontiers Targeting the world’s scientific and technological frontier, we will strengthen strategic technology deployment in AI, quantum technology, biotechnology, new energy, 37 and others, accelerate breakthroughs in fundamental theories and technologies, and promote practical applications. High-level foresight and anticipation of frontier technologies will be organized, and a national list of critical and emerging technologies will also be established to continuously drive frontier technology R&D. The original innovation-oriented scientific research and technology development will be strengthened. An environment conducive to original and disruptive innovation will be optimized. Selection and funding mechanisms for non-consensus projects will be innovated, and the scale and proportion of original and disruptive projects under major national science and technology tasks and the National Natural Science Foundation of China will be expanded. In order to place national strategic needs at the fore, we will solidly advance national science and technology major projects and launch national science and technology major projects for 2035 ahead of time. Box 8: Breakthroughs in Frontier Science and Technology 01 AI We will develop high-performance AI chips and highly available basic software stacks, accelerate exploration and innovation in model infrastructures, deepen research on such key algorithms as interpretability and decision-making, and strengthen research and application of AI data governance and security. 02 Quantum Technology We will build an integrated space-ground quantum communication network, develop fault-tolerant universal quantum computers and scalable specialized quantum computers, and achieve breakthroughs in key technologies for quantum precision measurement. 03 Controlled Nuclear Fusion We will achieve breakthroughs in key fusion technologies, including tritium fuel cycle, irradiation testing of materials, high-performance lasers, and superconducting magnet manufacturing, conduct fusion deuterium-tritium 38 burning plasma experiments and feasibility verification of multiple technology pathways, and advance the engineering process of nuclear fusion R&D. 04 Life Sciences and Biotechnology We will deepen research on gene editing, molecular precision delivery, cell programming and regulation, and advanced omics, tackle key technologies for artificial life system synthesis, organoids and organ-on-a-chip, organ manufacturing, and biological structure and function imaging, and develop bioengineering design software. 05 Brain Science and Brain-Inspired Research We will decode the principles of brain cognition and brain function, build innovative technology platforms for neural activity detection and regulation, strengthen research on proactive brain health technologies, develop new methods and products for the prevention, diagnosis, intervention, and treatment of major brain diseases, and build a brain-inspired general intelligence system. 06 Prevention and Treatment of Major Diseases and Development of Innovative Drugs We will improve the system for prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of infectious diseases including AIDS, tuberculosis, and viral hepatitis, delve into key technologies for early screening and detection, precision medicine, and biological therapy for cancers, cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, respiratory diseases, and metabolic diseases, and develop innovative drugs for major high-incidence chronic diseases, major infectious diseases, rare diseases, and pediatric medicines. 07 Deep-Sea, Deep-Earth, and Polar Exploration We will carry out tasks including the discovery of typical deep-sea habitats, ocean drilling, deep-sea mineral development, natural gas hydrate extraction, and ultra-deepwater oil and gas development, accelerate the development of 39 unmanned intelligent deep-sea technologies, advance Phase III of the Jiaolong Deep-Sea Exploration Program, and develop a deep-sea space station. Deep-earth detection and mineral resource exploration equipment will be tackled, and fundamental scientific research, such as Earth tomography, will be conducted. Technological innovation for the intelligent development and utilization of mineral resources will be advanced. We will also advance Phase III of the Xuelong Polar Exploration Program. 08 Deep Space Exploration We will conduct feasibility studies on and implement Phase II of the Planetary Exploration Program, the Near-Earth Asteroid Defense Program, and the Solar System Boundary Exploration Program. Reusable heavy-lift launch vehicles will be developed. We will also conduct feasibility studies on the construction of an International Lunar Research Station and implement the Lunar Exploration Program. Section 3 Comprehensive Enhancement of Basic Research We will strengthen the strategic, forward-looking, and systematic deployment of basic research and coordinate the advancement of both goal-oriented and free- exploration basic research. The formation of a diversified investment structure in basic research will be accelerated. More specifically, fiscal input will be increased, with improved tax incentives. Localities, enterprises, social organizations, and individuals capable of supporting basic research will be guided to offer support. Public welfare funds for basic research will be encouraged to establish and ensure a marked increase in the proportion of basic research expenditure within overall R&D expenditure. The investment mechanism combining competitive support with stable support will be improved, and long-term and stable support for leading teams engaged in basic research and for young science and technology talent will be increased, with an exploration of long-cycle funding models. We will encourage high-risk, high-value basic research, and create a favorable environment that inspires exploration and tolerates failure. Focusing on the scientific frontiers of extremely macroscopic, extremely 40 microscopic, extreme conditions, and extreme comprehensive interdisciplinarity, we will strengthen basic research in emerging fields, cross-disciplinary integration, and interdisciplinary areas. Chapter 9 Improvement of Systemic Innovation We will coordinate the building of national strategic science and technology forces, improve the efficiency of innovation resource allocation, and build a national innovation system characterized by independence, completeness, openness, and high efficiency. Section 1 Enhancement of the Leading Role of National Strategic Science and Technology Forces We will optimize the positioning and deployment of national strategic science and technology forces, including national laboratories, national scientific research institutions, high-level research universities, and leading science and technology enterprises. Full play will be given to the leading role of national laboratories. National laboratories will be supported in spearheading the implementation of major national science and technology tasks and exploring new organizational models of scientific research, and the construction of national key laboratories will be strengthened. The adjustment, optimization, and restructuring of the layout of national scientific research institutions will be accelerated, with the management and operating mechanisms aligned with their obligations and responsibilities improved. We will support high-level research universities in creating world-class academic environments and develop themselves into the main force for basic research and the key front for talent cultivation. Leading science and technology enterprises will be cultivated to enhance their capacity to integrate innovation resources and build industrial ecosystems. The development of new-type R&D institutions will be encouraged and regulated. Section 2 Reinforcement of Science and Technology Innovation Resources Protection We will strengthen the coordinated deployment mechanism for science and technology tasks and improve the national consultation system for major science and technology decision-making. The allocation, management, and operation mechanisms 41 for central fiscal science and technology funds will be improved, and the mechanism for shared central-local investment in major science and technology tasks will be perfected, with the investment performance enhanced. The scope of the “lump-sum” system for fiscal research project funding will be expanded, and scientists will be granted greater autonomy in determining technology pathways, greater discretion over funding, and greater authority over resource scheduling. Autonomous assurance of fundamental science and technology conditions will be strengthened, the building of science and technology innovation platform bases will be coordinated, and major science and technology infrastructure will be deployed and built in a systematic manner. We will give more support for high-end research instruments, science and technology journals, and scientific data, and drive the open sharing of resources. The regional innovation system will be improved, and the source innovation of international science and technology innovation centers will be strengthened, with regional science and technology innovation centers and industrial science and technology innovation hubs deployed and built. The clustering effect of innovation resources at comprehensive national science centers will be enhanced, so as to improve central-local linkage and regionally coordinated innovation mechanisms. Box 9: Enhancement of Basic Innovation Capacity 01 National Laboratory System We will support national laboratories and national key laboratories, and strengthen the construction of and improvement of research conditions at major scientific research platforms. With national laboratories as the pillar and national key laboratories and other coordinated national science and technology innovation platforms and bases as important support, a mission- driven, task-oriented, and highly coordinated national laboratory system will take shape. 02 Major Science and Technology Infrastructure We will build strategy-oriented facilities, including the thermal physics test 42 facility for key components of air-breathing engines and the high-precision ground-based timing system, application-supporting facilities including the Spallation Neutron Source Phase II and the deep rock and soil engineering disturbance simulation facility, and forward-looking and leading facilities including the space-ground integrated quantum precision measurement experimental facility and the enhanced and upgraded pulsed high-magnetic- field experimental device. 03 Regional Innovation System We will support the construction of international science and technology innovation centers in Beijing (Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei), Shanghai (Yangtze River Delta), and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, to develop world-class sources of science and technology innovation. We will support the construction of major research facility and platform clusters at comprehensive national science centers in Huairou (Beijing), Zhangjiang (Shanghai), the Greater Bay Area, and Hefei (Anhui). We will also advance the construction of regional science and technology innovation centers in Chengdu, Chongqing, Wuhan, and Xi’an. 04 Basic Platforms for Science and Technology We will implement the industrial innovation initiative for high-end research instruments and biological reagents. The layout of biological germplasm and experimental materials repositories and national field observation and research stations will be improved. World-class science and technology journals, high-level science and technology literature platforms, and scientific databases will be established. Section 3 A New Pattern of High-Level Openness and Cooperation in Science and Technology We will cultivate an open innovation ecosystem with global competitiveness and support joint efforts with researchers from all countries to tackle foundational frontier 43 scientific problems. Full play will be given to the role of world-oriented scientific research funds, and the opening of science and technology programs will be expanded for global participation. We will establish and improve the systems for cross-border disbursement and overseas use management of science and technology funds and systems for the secure and orderly cross-border flow of research data, and promote the opening and availability of major scientific research infrastructure and platforms to scientists around the world. The management mechanism for external professional exchange and cooperation by universities, scientific research institutes, and science and technology associations will be optimized. We will take the lead in implementing and actively participate in international major science plans and major science projects, support the establishment of international science and technology organizations on Chinese territory, and develop international science and technology awards with global influence. Chapter 10 Enhanced Dominant Position of Enterprises in Science and Technology Innovation We will give effect to the principal role of enterprises in technological innovation decision-making, R&D investment, research organization, and achievement commercialization and application, and promote deep integration of the innovation chain, industrial chain, capital chain, and talent chain. Section 1 Concentration of Innovation Resources in Enterprises We will establish and improve a policy system for the concentration of innovation resources, including projects, platforms, data, and talent, in enterprises. The participation of enterprises in major national science and technology innovation decision-making will be increased. We will make the key common technology needs of industries an important direction for national science and technology program support, and drive the incorporation of qualified corporate major science and technology projects into the national science and technology program system. Enterprises will be supported in taking on more national science and technology tasks for breakthroughs, and lead enterprises will be granted greater autonomy in technology pathway determination, task advancement, selection of participating units, and fund distribution. Priority will be given 44 to supporting leading science and technology enterprises in building national science and technology innovation platforms and bases, and the opening of national scientific data, engineering test data, and talent programs to enterprises will be increased. Policies on research personnel taking leave to start businesses and holding concurrent positions with concurrent compensation will be improved, and outstanding talent will be incentivized to join enterprises. Section 2 Enhancement of Enterprise-Led Industry-University-Research Integrated Innovation We will encourage enterprises to collaborate with universities and scientific research institutes to carry out joint scientific research targeting industrial needs. Leading science and technology enterprises will be supported in taking the lead in forming innovation consortia, carrying out R&D on key common technologies, and conducting pilot-scale testing and demonstration application of scientific and technological outcomes. The reform of empowerment over employment-related scientific and technological outcomes will be deepened, and a system for separate asset management of employment-related science and technology outcomes will be established. We will advance the building of a technology transfer system for stepping up the efficient commercialization and application of scientific and technological outcomes. We will guide universities and scientific research institutes to license their science and technology innovation achievements to small and micro enterprises on a use-first, pay-later basis. Leading science and technology enterprises will be encouraged to share research conditions and application scenarios with small and micro enterprises and to provide them with technology development services. Section 3 Improvement of Policy System for Promoting Enterprise Innovation We will strengthen the supply of inclusive policies and cultivate an environment conducive to enterprise innovation. The development of high-technology enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises specialized in science and technology will be supported, and the proportion of the additional deduction for enterprise R&D expenses will be raised. An enterprise R&D reserve system will be established. We will establish a 45 science and technology finance system in line with science and technology innovation, improve policies supporting long-term capital investment in early-stage, small, long-term, and hard-technology ventures, support quality science and technology enterprises in listing for financing and issuing bonds, and build a high-quality “Science and Technology Sector” in the bond market. Venture capital will be vigorously developed, and the sources of medium-to-long-term venture capital will be expanded through multiple channels, while giving full play to the roles of the National Venture Capital Guidance Fund and national-level acquisition funds. Foreign capital in conducting equity investment and venture capital investment in China will be more convenient, and government procurement of independently innovated products will be increased. A science and technology insurance policy system will be established, with more science and technology insurance products available. Full-chain intellectual property protection will be strengthened. Patent and trademark examination policies will be optimized, and the patent open licensing system will be comprehensively implemented. Chapter 11 Integrated Advancement of Education, Science and Technology, and Talent Development We will deepen integrated reform of education, science and technology, and talent, strengthen planning coordination, policy synergy, resource pooling, and evaluation linkage, and promote a virtuous interaction between self-reliant science and technology innovation and independent talent cultivation. Section 1 Establishment and Improvement of a Coordinated Mechanism for Integrated Advancement We will improve the strategic coordination and implementation mechanism for education, science and technology, and talent, and strengthen the organic alignment of strategic objectives, integrated deployment of strategic tasks, coordinated application of policy measures, and pooled allocation of resource factors. Coordinated deployment of education, science and technology, and talent platforms and bases will be driven forward, and education, science, and talent centers with global influence will be built. The establishment of a coordinated management mechanism for education, science and 46 technology, and talent in localities with necessary conditions will be explored. Focusing on innovation needs, we will accelerate the building of national strategic talent forces and increase the cultivation and support of strategic scientists, leading science and technology talent, basic research talent, and young science and technology talent. Talent collaboration will be strengthened, and the talent structure will be optimized. We will improve the orderly talent mobility mechanism and promote coordinated regional development of talent. Section 2 Collaborative Cultivation of Innovative Talent We will coordinate talent cultivation around the needs of science and technology innovation, industrial development, and national strategy, and improve the quality of independent talent cultivation. Focusing on dominant disciplines and strategically urgent needs, the scope of “Double First-Class” construction will be moderately expanded, and new research-oriented universities will be built. The mechanism for adjusting the setting of disciplines and specializations in higher education will be improved, with urgently needed disciplines and specializations in emerging fields such as AI and integrated circuits unprecedentedly planned, and the fundamental disciplines and interdisciplinary disciplines breakthroughs deeply implemented. The talent concentration and cultivation of research institutions, innovation platforms, enterprises, and science and technology programs will be strengthened, and more enrolment quotas will be allocated to institutions undertaking major science and technology tasks. We will explore new models for top-tier innovative talent cultivation, strengthen the development of scientific literacy, critical thinking, and innovative capacity among young people, advance the synergy between science and technology education and humanities education, and reinforce the integrated cultivation of undergraduates, postgraduates, and doctoral candidates in fundamental disciplines, interdisciplinary fields, and strategically urgent areas. Section 3 Joint Innovation in Incentive and Evaluation Mechanisms Taking innovation capacity, quality, effectiveness, and contribution as the indicators, we will deepen reform of project review, institutional assessment, talent evaluation, and income distribution, and stimulate the drive and vitality for innovation and creativity. 47 Basic research evaluation will be conducted focusing on the originality of achievements and academic value, and international peer review will be optimized. Applied research and technology development evaluation will be promoted primarily based on user and market feedback, and new technologies and new products will serve as an important basis for performance appraisal, professional title assessment, and talent program support. Employers will be granted greater autonomy in talent evaluation, to prevent the determination of remuneration and resource allocation by the simple use of titles and honorary designations. Supporting policies on staffing, remuneration and benefits, professional title assessment and appointment, performance appraisal, and promotion will be improved, and channels for talent exchange among universities, scientific research institutes, and enterprises will be simplified. The support and guarantee mechanism for overseas-recruited talent will be improved, and a high-technology talent immigration system will be established to attract and cultivate outstanding talent from around the world. We will also strengthen science and technology outreach, cultivate an innovation culture, promote the spirit of scientists, and strengthen the rule of law, ethics, integrity, and security of science and technology. Part Four Advancement of Digital China and Elevation of Digital-Intelligent Development By grasping the overarching trends of digitalization, networking, and intelligentization, we will fully leverage its advantages of abundant data resources, a comprehensive industrial system, and diverse application scenarios. We will unlock the potential of data as a production factor, accelerate innovation in digital-intelligent technologies, and further expand the “AI+” initiative. These efforts will empower economic and social development, enhance governance capacity, and drive profound transformations in modes of production and revolutionary advances in productivity. Chapter 12 Strengthened Efficient Supply of Computing Power, Algorithms, and Data We will coordinate the development of computing infrastructure, model algorithms, 48 and the supply of high-quality data resources in order to build a solid foundation for digital-intelligent development. Section 1 Strengthened Support for Computing Infrastructure We will coordinate the planning and orderly development of computing infrastructure while promoting the scaled, intensive, green, and inclusive development of computing resources. We will accelerate the development of national computing hub clusters and support regions with suitable conditions in moderately expanding computing capacity to meet the demands of low-latency scenarios, while promoting cloud-edge-end collaborative development. The supply of high-performance and high- quality intelligent computing resources will be strengthened, and feasibility studies will be conducted for the construction of ultra-large-scale intelligent computing clusters. Market-oriented construction and operation of computing infrastructure will be advanced, while diversified approaches, including government procurement of computing services and computing power leasing, will be encouraged to meet computing demand. Standardized and scalable intelligent computing cloud services will be further developed. Efforts will be made to promote the coordinated deployment of green electricity and computing resources. Nationwide integrated monitoring and scheduling of computing power will be strengthened, improving computing access and the precise matching of supply and demand. The development of an independent, controllable, and coordinated hardware–software ecosystem will be accelerated. Measures will be taken to enhance the accessibility and usability of computing resources for all and reduce computing costs for small and medium-sized enterprises. Section 2 Promotion of Iterative Innovation in Model Algorithms We will accelerate breakthroughs in the fundamental theories and core AI technologies. We will advance improvements in AI model architectures and algorithm optimization while strengthening collaborative innovation across the “model–chip– cloud–application.” A task-oriented, flexibly authorized, and cross-domain collaborative organizational model for algorithm innovation will be established, and research into more efficient model training and inference methods will be accelerated. Innovation will be 49 encouraged in technologies such as multimodal AI, AI agents, embodied intelligence, and swarm intelligence, while actively exploring pathways towards general AI. The coordinated development of general-purpose large language models and industry- specific models will be promoted, with high-value application scenarios serving as key drivers for model deployment and iterative upgrading. A comprehensive system for evaluating model capabilities will also be established and improved. Section 3 Deepened Development and Utilization of Data Resources We will establish a national data resource system, improve statistical and survey mechanisms for data resources, and create a unified national data resource ledger. Coordinated efforts will be made to promote the sharing of governmental data, the opening of public data, and authorized data operations. The accountability system for the development and utilization of public data resources will be strengthened, alongside mechanisms ensuring the compliant use of personal data. Efforts will also be made to encourage the development and opening of enterprise and industry data. We will improve data standards and quality management systems while accelerating the development of AI training corpora. High-quality datasets will be built for key sectors such as energy, transportation, manufacturing, education, healthcare, and finance, and a regulatory framework for the responsible use of AI training data will be established. Research, development, and application of key technologies and equipment in the data domain will be strengthened. The data industry will be cultivated and expanded, and the “Data Factor ×” initiative will be further implemented. National data infrastructure will be constructed and operated, and the Trusted Data Space Development Action Plan will be carried out. Chapter 13 Advancement of the Comprehensive Empowerment of Digital- Intelligent Technologies We will fully implement the “AI+” initiative, strengthen the integration of AI with scientific and technological innovation, industrial development, cultural advancement, people’s livelihood, and social governance, and seize strategic advantages in AI industrial applications. Through these efforts, digital-intelligent technologies will 50 empower all sectors of the economy and society. Section 1 Promotion of the Deep Integration of Real Economy and Digital Economy We will expand the core industries of the digital economy and foster sectors such as next-generation communications technologies, cloud computing, and blockchain. The development of high-end chips, optoelectronic components, foundational software, and industrial software will be strengthened, and globally competitive digital industry clusters will be established. The construction of national AI innovation hubs will be advanced, while new intelligent-native business models and formats will be cultivated, and national AI application pilot testing bases will be established. Efforts will be made to promote intelligent transformation, digital upgrading, and network integration of manufacturing. The Intelligent Manufacturing Initiative and the Industrial Internet Innovation and Development Initiative will be implemented, with coordinated progress in building and scaling the application of networks, identification systems, platforms, data infrastructures, and security systems. Digital-intelligent transformation in the service sector will be accelerated, with smart agriculture being further developed. Networks facilitating digital transformation will be established, and service systems supporting the digital empowerment of small and medium-sized enterprises will be improved. Efforts will be made to strengthen the open-source ecosystem and refine the mechanisms supporting its operations. Section 2 Creation of a Better Digital-Intelligent Life We will fully leverage digital-intelligent technologies and data resources to enrich people’s lives and improve public well-being. Integrated applications will be expanded across fields such as education, healthcare, elderly care, culture, tourism, employment, and consumption. Scenarios for smart homes, mobility, and communities will be further developed, while intelligent terminal products and services will be expanded to create convenient digital-intelligent service ecosystems. AI will support the transformation of educational models, and digital-intelligent technologies will be gradually applied in areas such as assisted diagnosis and treatment, precision medicine, health management, medical insurance services, and elderly and disability care. The National Action Plan for 51 Enhancing Digital Literacy and Skills for All will be further implemented, strengthening the employment-creating potential of AI. Efforts will also be made to explore how digital- intelligent technologies can improve primary healthcare services and promote educational equity, thereby supporting the equalization of basic public services. Section 3 Enhancement of the Digital-Intelligent Capacity of Government Governance We will deepen the application of digital-intelligent technologies across the entire governance process and develop government services that are ubiquitous, accessible, intelligent, convenient, equitable, and inclusive. The nationwide integrated online government service platform will be improved, while the “single-form integration” data system and public application support infrastructure will be strengthened. Greater sharing and utilization of governmental data across departments, administrative levels, and regions will also be promoted. The deployment and application of AI large language models in government affairs will be advanced in a safe, prudent, and orderly manner. New service models will be explored that can accurately identify public needs, proactively arrange services, and complete processes intelligently throughout the entire process. AI will also be further integrated into security governance, enhancing capabilities in monitoring and early warning, command and decision-making, precise management, and real-time response. Box 10: The “AI+” Action Initiative 01 “AI+” Science and Technology We will accelerate the exploration of new AI-driven paradigms for scientific research and technological development. We will promote the development and application of large language models in the scientific domain, build intelligent research platforms and high-quality scientific datasets, and strengthen collaborative innovation between AI and fields such as quantum technology, life sciences, new materials, new energy, and 6G. 02 “AI+” Industrial Development AI will be deployed and applied throughout the entire industrial life cycle, 52 including design, pilot testing, production, and operations. Innovation will be accelerated in scenarios such as power system regulation, energy exploration and development, and new energy output forecasting. Agriculture will undergo digital-intelligent upgrading in areas such as biological breeding, production management, and disease prevention and control. In service sectors, including software and information services, finance and business services, and transportation and logistics services, the widespread adoption of intelligent terminals and AI agents will be promoted. 03 “AI+” Consumption Upgrading We will develop efficiency-enhancing and companionship-oriented intelligent- native applications, and promote the next generation of intelligent terminals, including AI-enabled smartphones, computers, and intelligent robots. New forms of intelligent products will be explored. New consumption scenarios for intelligent services will be expanded, with AI experience centers being established, and integrated interactive environments covering diverse application scenarios being created. 04 “AI+” People’s Well-Being Innovative teaching models, such as intelligent learning companions and AI- assisted teachers, will be developed, alongside expanded applications in precision teaching, personalized learning, and intelligent tutoring. High-quality AI health assistants will be promoted, and intelligent assisted diagnosis will be expanded in primary-level healthcare institutions. AI will also be used to support innovation in cultural creation, production, dissemination, and tourism services. Residential design and intelligent living environments will be enhanced. New human–AI collaborative working models will be explored, with embodied intelligence being deployed in sectors facing labor shortages or high-risk working conditions. 05 “AI+” Governance Capacity AI will be applied in areas such as integrated market supervision, workplace safety regulation, disaster prevention and relief, public security management, 53 cyberspace governance, and ecological and environmental protection. Efforts will be made to explore the development of collaborative and safe governance systems involving natural persons, digital persons, and intelligent robots. 06 “AI+” Global Cooperation We will promote the establishment of a World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Organization, build a multilateral AI cooperation platform under the Belt and Road Initiative, and establish an International AI Application Cooperation Centre. Countries concerned will be encouraged to jointly develop regulatory frameworks, technical standards, and ethical guidelines. Efforts will also be made to accelerate the development of globally open-source technology systems and community ecosystems. Chapter 14 Building of a Healthy and Well-Organized Development Ecosystem By making coordinated efforts to pursue advancement and regulatory management, we will strengthen the building of fundamental systems for data and AI governance to foster a development environment featured by benefits, safety, and equity. Section 1 Improvement of the Fundamental Systems for Data Elements We will establish and improve fundamental systems for data property rights, circulation and utilization, revenue distribution, security governance, and other data elements. The structurally differentiated data property rights system will be improved, and a unified national system for data property rights registration will be built. We will develop an open, shared, and secure national integrated data market by stepping up the improvement of the rules and standards governing data circulation and trading, optimizing the arrangement of data trading institutions, and supporting the standardized development of third-party professional service providers. In addition, a price formation mechanism for data elements will be established, and a data revenue distribution mechanism balancing the interests of all parties will be explored. We will improve laws and regulations on data, while optimizing the rules governing data collection, storage, circulation, and use management. Tiered and classified data management will be implemented to enhance the protection of data security. 54 Section 2 Improvement of Effective and Scientific Regulatory Mechanisms We will improve the safety regulatory framework for emerging technologies and new business forms, build mechanisms for the development of technical standards and the tiered management of technology applications, and advance diversified, collaborative governance. AI laws, regulations, policies, application norms, and ethical guidelines will be improved, with the systems for algorithm registration, transparency management, and security assessment being strengthened. The establishment of rules governing the attribution of rights in AI-generated outputs and the definition of rights and liabilities among developers, operators, and users will be explored. We will advance a full-lifecycle AI risk management system and strengthen a risk prevention and control framework covering security monitoring, risk early warning, and emergency response. We will promote the innovative and healthy development of the platform economy and reinforce regulation on platform enterprises’ data, algorithms, traffic, and rules, with a goal of boosting the common development of platform enterprises, operators on the platform, and laborers. Data abuse, deepfakes, and privacy breaches will be cracked down on in accordance with the law. Section 3 Expansion of International Cooperation in Digital and Intelligent Development We will build a global network of digital partnerships, deepen cooperation in e- commerce, digital payments, and smart cities, and explore the development of offshore computing power infrastructure and cross-border data flow infrastructure. Active participation in international governance of AI, digital currencies, and cross-border data flow will be encouraged. We will reach a greater consensus on data security, privacy protection, and cross-border law enforcement cooperation, and strengthen international judicial coordination and mutual recognition of rules. The establishment of an AI governance framework with broad participation by all countries will be advanced to jointly build a global, open AI ecosystem characterized by equal rights, mutual trust, diversity, and shared benefits, and support will be provided to the Global South countries in strengthening their AI capacity. 55 Part Five Building of a Strong Domestic Market and Accelerated Construction of a New Development Paradigm We will uphold expanding domestic demand as the strategic anchor, improving living standards while increasing consumer spending, and closely combine investment in physical assets with investment in human capital. We will see that new demand drives new supply, new supply helps create fresh demand, and positive interactions will be formed between consumption and investment and between supply and demand. We will achieve a higher-level dynamic supply-demand equilibrium and enhance the internal momentum and reliability of the domestic economic circulation. Chapter 15 Vigorous Expansion of Consumption We will deeply implement special actions to boost consumption, strengthen residents’ consumption capacity and willingness, expand quality supply in response to the consumption needs of different groups, and promote relatively rapid growth in the consumption of goods and services across society as a whole. Section 1 Consolidation of the Foundation for Resident Consumption We will make coordinated moves to boost employment, increase income, and stabilize expectations, and accelerate the formation of a long-term mechanism for expanding resident consumption. Employment capacity will be stabilized and expanded. Enterprises will be supported in retaining and expanding their workforce, and individuals in starting businesses and finding jobs. Efforts will be made to actively cultivate new occupations and new posts, and expand new employment in areas such as the digital economy, green economy, and silver economy. We will vigorously increase income for urban and rural residents and steadily raise the minimum wage standard. The operating environment for small and micro enterprises and self-employed businesses will be continuously improved, and the healthy development of the property and stock markets will be promoted. We will weave a denser and more robust social security net, encourage and support the participation in employee insurance by flexibly employed persons and persons in new forms of employment. The dynamic adjustment mechanism for the 56 minimum living guarantee standard, linked to per capita consumption expenditure, will be standardized and improved. We will also increase government expenditure to better protect people’s livelihood. Section 2 Release of the Service Consumption Potential With a focus on relaxing market access and integrating business forms, we will expand service consumption and cultivate new growth points. We will elevate the convenience of daily service consumption, foster community-embedded services, and create 15-minute community life circles. We will advance the revitalization of traditional commercial districts and improve the service consumption experience in elderly care, childcare, household services, and other fields. Development-oriented consumption will be increased to a larger portion to adapt to diversified and personalized service needs. Education and training consumption will be regulated and developed, health consumption will be cultivated and grown, and quality international service resources will be actively introduced. Improvement-oriented consumption will be stimulated for greater vitality. We will expand culture, sports, and tourism consumption, streamline the approval and management of commercial performances and sporting events, and implement plans to boost ice and snow tourism. Leisure consumption such as cruise travel, yacht tours, and recreational vehicle camping will be developed, and low-altitude consumption will be actively expanded. We will deepen the integration of commerce, travel, culture, sports, and health sectors to innovate immersive and interactive consumption scenarios. Section 3 Expansion and Upgrading of Goods Consumption By strengthening brand leadership, standards upgrading, and new technology application, we will stabilize big-ticket consumption, promote the consumer goods upgrading and replacement, and meet multi-tiered needs for consumer goods. Real estate policies will be optimized based on city-specific conditions, with multiple approaches being adopted simultaneously to stabilize expectations. The potential of rigid and improvement-driven housing demand will be fully released, and the elderly- adaptation renovation and intelligent upgrading of ageing housing stock will be 57 supported. We will further promote the transition of vehicle consumption from purchasing to utilizing, improving charging and swapping, parking, and other infrastructure, and also expanding after-market consumption in vehicle customization, leasing, and related areas. We will support the building of recycling systems for vehicles, electronics, home appliances, and furniture, and standardize the circulation of second- hand goods. We will implement action plans to upgrade digital consumption, driving the application of new intelligent products, formulating standards for smart home interconnection and interoperability, and promoting flexible and customized production models for consumer goods. We will foster green consumption and actively promote green and low-carbon products. We will cultivate new growth points for mid-to-high-end consumption, helping time-honored brands and domestic trendy brands to become more refined and stronger, driving derivative products consumption, and actively advancing the debut economy. Section 4 Continuous Improvement of the Consumption Environment We will improve institutional mechanisms for promoting consumption, clear away unreasonable measures restricting consumption, and establish and improve management mechanisms aligned with new business forms, models, and scenarios in consumption. We will intensify the universal policies that benefit consumers directly and expand financial supply in the consumption domain. A number of new consumption scenarios with a wide-ranging impact and high visibility will be created. We will optimize inbound consumption environment, promote departure duty-free stores, and foster international consumption hub cities to advance “shopping in China.” The paid annual leave system for employees will be implemented, flexible and staggered vacations will be encouraged, and the trial introduction of spring and autumn school holidays for primary and secondary school students will be explored. We will strengthen the protection of consumer rights and interests, unblock channels for consumer complaints and rights protection. We will also regulate business activities such as online sales and livestream shopping, and improve the prepaid consumption regulation. Efforts will be made to strengthen the comprehensiveness of consumption statistics and improve the 58 statistical monitoring of service consumption, and new business forms and models. Chapter 16 Expansion of Effective Investment We will accelerate the building of an endogenous growth mechanism for effective investment, maintain reasonable investment growth, and raise the comprehensive return of investment, enabling investment to play a better role in supporting national strategies, optimizing the supply structure, and meeting people’s livelihood needs. Section 1 Improvement for the Effectiveness of Government Investment We will optimize the structure of government investment with a focus on benefiting people, filling gaps, and enhancing momentum. By coordinating “hard investment” and “soft development,” we will implement major national strategies and build security- capacity projects in key areas at a high standard, and implement a number of major landmark engineering projects. Investment in human resource development and in the well-rounded personal development will be strengthened. We will implement a number of people’s livelihood projects in areas such as services for the elderly and young children, primary healthcare, expansion of regular high schools and quality higher education, and vocational skills training, with a higher proportion of government investment. In response to demographic shifts and population movement trends, we will improve the layouts of infrastructure and public service facilities. Adapting to the requirements of new quality productive forces development, we will actively support investment in new infrastructure and intangible assets. We will strengthen full-process management of government investment, with greater emphasis on the leading role of strategic planning, feasibility studies of project planning and reserve, and ex-ante and post-hoc supervision, thereby avoiding overly future-oriented construction and low- efficiency or ineffective investment. We will further clarify the directions and priorities of central and local government investment, and coordinate the use of all types of government investment funds. We will take explorative steps to formulate overall government investment plans in areas with the initial groundwork in place. The management of special-purpose bonds for local government will be optimized, the “self- review and self-issuance” mechanism will be improved, and the proportion used for 59 project construction will be raised and accounted for separately. We will give play to new-type policy-based financial instruments. We will further reform the investment approval system, optimize the approval authority for government-funded projects, revise the catalogue of government-approved investment projects, therefore enhancing the efficiency of investment approval services. Section 2 Stimulation of Private Investment Vitality Upholding equal treatment, rights and interests protection, and policy coordination, we will boost growth momentum for market-driven effective investment and raise the proportion of private investment. We will improve the long-term mechanism to facilitate private enterprise in participating in major projects. We will encourage and support private enterprises to participate in construction projects in railway, nuclear power, hydropower, water supply, and other sectors, and further increase their shareholding proportions in qualifying projects. We will also encourage private enterprises to increase investment in science and technology innovation and industrial upgrading, and promote their access to application scenarios in emerging fields. The lawful rights and interests of private enterprises in their investment and operations will be protected in accordance with law, and their needs for land, financing, and other factor inputs will be protected on an equal footing. We will ensure that government investment funds play a guiding and driving role in layout planning, direction guidance and evaluation, and that the “investment, financing, management, and exit” mechanism is improved. Section 3 Promotion of a Virtuous Cycle of Investment and Consumption With a focus on the combination of investment and consumption, we will leverage effective investment to drive consumption capacity and willingness, use consumption upgrading to optimize investment directions, and enhance the comprehensive effect of policies aimed at domestic demands expansion. We will support investment expansion in industries with strong capacity to drive employment and income growth. We will encourage the construction of consumption infrastructure and facilities that can improve consumer services. We will also strengthen investment in the construction of consumption scenarios, and the upgrading of facilities, in fields such as health and 60 elderly care, sports and fitness, leisure and entertainment. Consumption functions at transport hubs, industrial concentration zones, and other locations will be expanded in a manner tailored to local conditions. We will drive county-level business for higher quality and greater efficiency, and fill the gaps in logistics and warehousing, rural parcel delivery, and other facilities. Chapter 17 In-Depth Advancement of a Unified National Market We will resolutely eliminate obstacles and bottlenecks impeding the building of a unified national market, break down local protectionism and market segmentation, and facilitate the smooth flow of commodities, factors, and resources across a wider scope. Section 1 Improvement of Basic Institutional Rules of a Unified National Market We will advance institutional development in property rights protection, market access, information disclosure, social credit, mergers and restructuring, and market exit, in accordance with the requirements of a unified national market. We will protect the property rights of all forms of ownership in accordance with law and on an equal and enduring basis. The same liability, criminal charges, and penalties will be applied to infringement upon the property rights and lawful interests of all forms of ownership. We will strengthen the protection and utilization of intellectual property, and formulate guidelines for the protection of trade secrets in key fields. We will improve market access system, dynamically revise the market access negative list, and strictly implement the “national unified list” management requirement. The institutional rules on information disclosure regarding quality, safety, environment, and related matters will be improved. The functionality of the national credit information sharing platform will be strengthened. We will further advance the collection and sharing of credit information, expand credit applications, and improve the mechanisms for encouraging trustworthy conduct, penalizing untrustworthy ones, and restoring credit. We will improve the enterprise bankruptcy system, and explore the establishment of a simplified exit mechanism covering all categories of business entities. We will improve the statistical, fiscal, taxation, and evaluation systems to facilitate the development of a unified market, promote statistic reporting based on the location where business entity activities occur, and 61 optimize the profit sharing between enterprise headquarters and branches and between places of production and consumption. Regulations on the building of a unified national market will be formulated. Section 2 Maintenance of a Fair Competition Market Order We will further improve market regulation rules, unify benchmarks, and enhance capacity to create a market order where good quality commands good prices and healthy competition prevails. We will formulate guidelines to promote fair competition and compliance in key fields, strengthen the binding constraint of fair competition reviews, and eliminate barriers in factor access, qualification recognition, tendering and bidding, and government procurement. We will regulate local governments’ economic promotion conduct, list encouraged and prohibited items for local government investment attraction, and enhance information disclosure of investment attraction. The list of matters impeding the building of a unified national market will be regularly updated, circulated, and accounted for. Law enforcement and judicial application regarding anti- monopoly and anti-unfair-competition will be strengthened, and anti-monopoly guidelines for key fields will be formulated. The coordinated and unified national standards system will be improved, the coverage of mandatory national standards will be expanded, and the standards for emerging industries will be established and elevated to align with international practices. We will promote the sharing of inspection, testing, and certification resources, mutual recognition of qualifications, and mutual acceptance of results. We will unify market regulation enforcement, improve administrative discretion benchmarks system, and promote the two-way connection between administrative penalties and criminal penalties. The system and mechanism of administrative reconsideration will be polished. We will also improve the comprehensive institutional mechanism of law enforcement, the hierarchical configuration of regulatory matters, and the effectiveness of primary-level law enforcement. Section 3 High-Standard Connectivity of Market Facilities We will promote interconnection and rules alignment among market facilities regarding circulation and logistics, market information, and trading platforms. We will 62 improve the efficient and smoothly functioning modern circulation system and enhance national logistics hub network. Leveraging strategic hub cities for modern circulation, we will build a number of backbone corridors for important commodity circulation. Support will be provided to regions with necessary conditions to build bulk commodity resource allocation hubs. Integrated and interconnected circulation rules and standards will be improved to reduce logistics costs across society. Multimodal transport facilities, standards development and information sharing will be strengthened. The “single bill” and “single container” approaches will be vigorously advanced to promote the container and bulk cargo rail-water intermodal transport. Channels for market information exchange will be improved to build a full-chain mechanism encompassing information, trust and application. We will build and improve a unified and standardized platform system for public resources trading, where information regarding tendering and bidding and procurement by government entities, public institutions, and state-owned enterprises will be shared. We will also promote the adoption of AI applications and big data regulations to achieve fully transparent, full-process project management. Part Six Accelerated Development of a High-Standard Socialist Market Economy System and Enhancement of the Momentum for High-Quality Development We will uphold and refine the basic socialist economic system while better leveraging the leading role of economic system reform. At the same time, we will develop a high-standard market system and enhance the effectiveness of macroeconomic governance. Through these efforts, we aim to optimize the efficiency of resource allocation and maximize economic returns, thereby stimulating endogenous momentum and innovative vitality across society and ensuring that high-quality development proceeds steadily and sustainably. Chapter 18 Full Unleashing of the Vitality for All Types of Business Entities We will adhere to and implement the principle of the “Two Unwavering Commitments,” promoting the complementary advantages and coordinated 63 development of economies under different forms of ownership. Section 1 Deepened Reform of State-Owned Capital and State-Owned Enterprises We will strengthen, refine, and expand state-owned enterprises (SOEs) and state- owned capital, enhancing both the core functions and the core competitiveness of SOEs. To this end, a guiding catalogue for optimizing the layout of the state-owned economy and adjusting its structure will be formulated and implemented. State-owned capital will be directed towards key industries and strategic sectors related to national security and the lifeblood of the national economy, towards public services, emergency-response capacity, and other public-interest fields closely tied to the national economy and people’s livelihoods, and towards forward-looking strategic emerging industries. Meanwhile, strategic restructuring and specialized integration will be intensified. Furthermore, categorized reform of SOEs will be deepened. The functional positioning of different SOE categories will be further clarified, while oversight of principal responsibilities and core businesses will be strengthened. A system for evaluating SOEs’ fulfilment of strategic missions will be established, together with a governance framework based on categorized assessment. At the same time, SOEs will be encouraged to improve market-oriented operating mechanisms and enhance their capacity for value creation. Institutional arrangements supporting original innovation within SOEs will also be strengthened. In addition, the regulatory framework for state- owned capital will be refined, so as to better leverage the role of state-owned capital investment and operating companies. The value-added accounting system for the state- owned economy and SOEs will be improved. Finally, SOEs and private enterprises will be encouraged to engage, in a standardized and market-oriented manner, in equity cooperation, strategic collaboration, and resource integration. Section 2 Development and Growth of the Private Economy We will implement the Private Economy Promotion Law and further improve the supporting legal, regulatory, and policy frameworks. In doing so, we will ensure, through both legal and institutional arrangements, equal use of production factors, fair participation in market competition, and effective protection of lawful rights and interests. 64 In addition, competitive segments of infrastructure will be opened more fully and fairly to private enterprises. Capable private enterprises will be supported in leading major national technological research and development (R&D) initiatives, with major national scientific research facilities and public R&D platforms being further opened to them. Financing support policies for private enterprises will be strengthened. The role of the nationally integrated network of financing credit service platforms will be enhanced, alongside improvements to the comprehensive credit evaluation system and credit enhancement mechanisms. At the same time, support will be provided for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed businesses, while encouraging coordinated and integrated development among large, medium-sized, and small enterprises. Building on this foundation, the “Jinjiang Experience” will be further innovated and developed. A comprehensive service system supporting the private economy will be improved, and regular communication, exchange, and problem- solving mechanisms between the government and enterprises will be institutionalized. Moreover, private enterprises will be guided to improve their governance structures and management systems, thereby promoting both the healthy development of the private economy and the sound growth of private entrepreneurs. Finally, the statistical monitoring system for the private economy will be strengthened. Section 3 Active Cultivation of a Premier Business Environment We will continuously advance the improvement and upgrading of the business environment, with the goal of creating a premier environment that is market-oriented, governed by the rule of law, and aligned with international standards. To support enterprises more effectively, the service system for businesses will be further refined. In particular, the priority list management and regular advancement mechanisms associated with the initiative of “efficiently completing multiple services through a single process” will be strengthened. Policies benefiting enterprises will increasingly be processed entirely online and delivered directly and efficiently, while the credit commitment system will be further promoted. Meanwhile, reform of the registered capital subscription and registration system will be deepened, and business-related licensing 65 requirements will continue to be streamlined. Long-term mechanisms regulating enterprise-related law enforcement will also be improved. Irregular enforcement practices, such as unlawful, cross-regional, or profit-driven enforcement, will be prevented and rectified. In addition, coordinated enforcement approaches, including initiatives such as “one comprehensive inspection,” will be expanded. Legal protection of property rights will be further strengthened, with greater judicial oversight over compulsory measures such as sealing, seizure, and freezing. A long-term mechanism for clearing arrears owed to enterprises will be established and improved, while channels for lodging complaints concerning government breaches of contract or loss of credibility will be further opened. At the same time, the modern enterprise system with Chinese characteristics will be improved, with entrepreneurial spirit being encouraged, and the development of more world-class enterprises being accelerated. Chapter 19 Accelerated Improvement of the System and Mechanisms for Market- Oriented Factor Allocation We will deepen market-oriented reform of production factors, remove barriers to their orderly flow, and coordinate the optimization of new resource inputs with the revitalization of existing assets. Through these efforts, all types of factor resources will be allocated more efficiently. Section 1 Improvement of Factor Market Systems and Rules The factor market systems will be further refined, with the scope of market-based allocation of production factors being expanded. In particular, land system reform will be deepened, with the establishment of a unified urban-rural market for construction land. At the same time, the capital market’s capacity to coordinate investment and financing will be strengthened. Foundational systems governing issuance and listing, information disclosure, mergers and acquisitions, restructuring, and delisting will be optimized. Efforts will also be made to improve the quality of listed companies and establish long-term mechanisms that enhance the intrinsic stability of the capital market. Furthermore, channels for the social mobility of labor and talent will be expanded, while institutional barriers related to household registration, social security, professional titles, 66 and personnel records will be gradually dismantled. A nationally integrated technology market and data market will be cultivated. Pilot programs for comprehensive reform of market-based factor allocation will be deepened and expanded, accelerating the formation of institutional outcomes that can be replicated and widely implemented. Section 2 Improvement of Price Formation Mechanism for Resource Factors The price formation mechanism, primarily determined by market supply and demand, will be further refined, with price governance being strengthened and improved. Efforts will be made to accelerate the establishment of pricing mechanisms suited to a new energy system. Market-oriented reform of on-grid electricity pricing for different types of power sources will be advanced in a phased and differentiated manner. Meanwhile, the pricing mechanism for refined oil products will be improved, with natural gas pricing reform being deepened and the coal price band regulation policy being refined. Regulatory oversight over pricing in network-based natural monopoly sectors will also be strengthened. In addition, reforms to water supply pricing for water conservancy projects will be deepened. Utility pricing mechanisms that promote sustainable development will be improved, and tiered pricing systems for residential water, electricity, and gas will be further optimized. Reforms to public service pricing will continue, with improvements made to service fee policies for elderly care and other services. At the same time, exploration will be undertaken to establish new price formation mechanisms for emerging production factors. Section 3 Activation and Utilization of Existing Stock Resources Policies related to mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy, and asset swaps will be refined in order to revitalize and better utilize underused land, idle property, and existing infrastructure. A macroeconomic balance sheet will be compiled to gain a comprehensive understanding of the nation’s stock of resource assets and optimize the asset-liability structure. Pilot programs for the redevelopment of inefficiently used land will be expanded and deepened. Planning regulation, land supply, and tax and fee policies supporting the revitalization of existing land will be improved, while the development of the secondary market for construction land will be accelerated. At the 67 same time, mixed-use land development, integrated spatial utilization, and lawful and appropriate conversion of land use will be promoted. Laws and regulations governing the renewal of commercial and industrial land-use rights will be refined, and renewal processes will be advanced in a prudent and lawful manner. Efforts will also be made to promote the sharing and revitalization of existing state-owned assets held by administrative and public institutions nationwide. Mechanisms supporting both the revitalization of existing resources and the high-quality development of industrial parks will be improved. Supporting policies, such as those related to asset valuation, will be strengthened, and broader social participation will be encouraged to enhance efficiency, with market-oriented operational procedures being standardized. Furthermore, enforcement of judicial rulings will be better integrated with the bankruptcy system, so as to revitalize, in accordance with the law, assets that have been sealed or frozen. The regularized recommendation and issuance of infrastructure real estate investment trusts (REITs) will be actively promoted. Chapter 20 Improvement of the Macroeconomic Governance System We will enhance the effectiveness of macroeconomic regulation and government governance, so as to foster an economic development model increasingly driven by domestic demand, propelled by consumption, and sustained by endogenous growth. Section 1 Improvement of the Institutional Framework for Macroeconomic Regulation and Control The strategic guiding role of national development plans will be strengthened, while coordination between fiscal and monetary policies will be enhanced. At the same time, policies related to industry, prices, employment, consumption, investment, trade, regional development, environmental protection, and regulation will be better aligned, thereby improving the consistency and effectiveness of macroeconomic policy orientation. Moreover, both counter-cyclical and cross-cyclical adjustments will be strengthened. More proactive macroeconomic policies will be implemented, with the scale of government debt being determined prudently and adequate liquidity being maintained, in order to stabilize growth, employment, and expectations. The 68 macroeconomic target system will be further refined by coordinating short-term and medium-to-long-term objectives and balancing aggregate stability with structural adjustment. Annual plans will be more closely aligned with national development strategies. In addition, the expectation management mechanism will be improved and incorporated throughout the entire process of macroeconomic governance. Economic monitoring, forecasting, and early-warning systems will be strengthened, and the policy toolkit will be expanded and refined. Policy intensity and timing will be determined more scientifically, with the evaluation of policy implementation outcomes being reinforced. Exploration will also be undertaken into the adoption of national macroeconomic balance sheet management. Finally, the comprehensive performance evaluation system for high- quality development will be further optimized. Section 2 Improvement of the Modern Fiscal System Reform of the fiscal and taxation system will be deepened, so as to better harness the role of proactive fiscal policy, strengthen sound fiscal management, and enhance fiscal sustainability. Macro-level guidance over budget preparation and fiscal policy will be reinforced, while the cross-year balancing role of medium-term fiscal planning will be fully utilized. At the same time, adequate fiscal resources will be ensured for major national strategic tasks and basic people’s livelihoods. Fiscal resources and budgetary arrangements will be coordinated more effectively. Greater integration will be achieved among government fund budgets, state-owned capital operating budgets, and the general public budget. The system governing state-owned capital operating budgets will be improved, with the proportion of returns collected from state-owned capital being raised appropriately, and all revenues derived from administrative powers, government credit, and state-owned resource assets being incorporated into government budget management. Meanwhile, the structure of fiscal expenditure will be optimized, with the proportion devoted to public services being appropriately increased. Zero-based budgeting reform will be further deepened, budget allocation authority will be unified, and the system of expenditure standards, together with dynamic adjustment mechanisms, will be strengthened. Budget performance management and oversight of 69 budget execution will also be enhanced. The tax structure will be optimized further to support high-quality development, social equity, and a unified market, while maintaining a reasonable overall tax burden. The proportion of direct taxation will be increased, and the personal income tax system, combining comprehensive and classified taxation, will be improved, with the scope of comprehensive taxation being gradually expanded. Tax policies governing business income, capital income, and property income will also be refined. In addition, policies for VAT credit refunds will be improved, and the deduction chain will be further optimized, while the revenue-sharing ratios of shared taxes will be adjusted appropriately. Research will be undertaken into tax systems suited to emerging economic forms and business models. The local tax system will be strengthened. The collection stage for consumption tax will be gradually shifted downstream and transferred steadily to local governments, thereby increasing local fiscal autonomy. At the same time, efforts will be made to strengthen certain central government responsibilities, increase the proportion of central fiscal expenditure, and reduce the number of central fiscal functions entrusted to local governments for implementation. Furthermore, the fiscal transfer payment system will be improved and its structure optimized. The principle of statutory taxation will be fully implemented, tax incentive policies will be standardized, and financial and accounting supervision will be strengthened. Finally, efforts will be accelerated to establish a long-term government debt management mechanism compatible with high-quality development. Section 3 Accelerated Development of a Strong Nation in Finance Adhering to the principles of preventing risks, strengthening regulation, and promoting high-quality development, we will accelerate the establishment of a modern financial system with Chinese characteristics. Efforts will be made to improve the central banking system and establish a sound and well-structured monetary policy framework. The mechanism for base money supply will be refined, while market-based interest rate formation, regulation, and transmission mechanisms will be strengthened. The growth of total social financing and the money supply will be kept broadly aligned with economic growth and expected price-level targets. We will establish a comprehensive 70 macroprudential management framework, incorporating a wider range of financial activities and markets into the macroprudential policy framework. Exchange rate flexibility of the renminbi will be enhanced while maintaining its basic stability at a reasonable and balanced level. At the same time, the quality and efficiency of financial services to the real economy will be improved. Strong support will be provided for the development of technological finance, green finance, inclusive finance, pension finance, and digital finance, while high-quality financial services will be directed towards major national strategies, key sectors, and weak links in the economy. The system of structural monetary policy instruments will be further refined. Comprehensive reform of the capital market’s investment and financing mechanisms will continue, so as to enhance its institutional inclusiveness and adaptability, while increasing the proportion of direct financing. In addition, efforts will be made to promote diversified equity financing, accelerate the multi-tiered bond market, and steadily develop the futures, derivatives, and asset securitization markets, with trading supervision and investor protection being strengthened. We will cultivate patient capital and improve the policy framework supporting medium and long-term capital participation in the market. The financial institutional system will be optimized so that various types of financial institutions focus on their core businesses, improve governance, and pursue differentiated development. Large state-owned financial institutions will be supported in enhancing their comprehensive service capacity, while entry standards and regulatory requirements for small and medium-sized financial institutions will be strictly enforced. At the same time, premier investment banks and investment institutions will be fostered. Safe and efficient financial infrastructure will be developed, and the digital renminbi will be advanced steadily. Furthermore, the building of Shanghai into an international financial center will be accelerated. Comprehensive financial supervision will also be strengthened, with a robust system for preventing and resolving financial risks being established to ensure the stable operation of the financial system. Part Seven Expansion of High-Standard Opening-up for a New Chapter of Win-Win Cooperation 71 We remain committed to opening up and win-win cooperation, steadily advancing institutional opening-up with a wider scope, building a new system of an open economy at a higher level, promoting the high-quality development of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), expanding global economic circulation, and advancing reform and development through opening-up. China advocates an equal and orderly multipolar world and inclusive, beneficial economic globalization, and stands ready to share opportunities and pursue common development with all countries across the world. Chapter 21 Active Expansion of Autonomous Opening-up We will align with international high-standard trade and economic rules to expand opening-up, and will promote mutual connection and compatibility between domestic and international rules, regulations, management practices, and standards, so as to foster a transparent, stable, and predictable institutional environment. Section 1 Orderly Expansion of Open Sectors and Regions We will expand market access and open sectors with a focus on the service sector, to implement opening-up on a broader scope, in wider fields, and at a deeper level. We will steadily expand opening-up in telecommunications, the internet, education, culture, healthcare, and other fields, prudently launch pilot opening-up programs for value- added telecommunications, biotechnology, wholly foreign-owned hospitals, and other areas, and promote comprehensive pilot demonstrations for expanding the opening-up of the service sector. The negative list for foreign investment access will be shortened, and the linkage mechanism between negative list revision and opening-up pilots will be strengthened. We will steadily and cautiously expand the interconnection of financial markets, optimize the qualified foreign investor system, expand the scope of investable products, orderly promote cross-border two-way direct financing for eligible enterprises, and support cross-border investment by equity investment funds. The efficient, convenient, and secure cross-border flow of data will be advanced. We will optimize visa and residence policies to improve the digital convenience of entry services for foreign personnel. We will promote the internationalization of the renminbi by expanding its use in international trade, investment, and financing, and raising the level of capital account 72 openness. An autonomous and controllable renminbi cross-border payment system will be built to develop the offshore renminbi market. In sectors with the necessary conditions, efforts will be made to first implement opening-up measures under high- standard trade and economic agreements. For the least developed countries and trade partners with great cooperation potential, the scope of sectors and regions for unilateral opening-up will be expanded. Section 2 Institutional and Regulatory System Aligned with High-Standard Trade and Economic Rules We will promote the efficient linkage of high-level opening-up and deep-level reform and accelerate the enactment and revision of laws and legislations, the adjustment of policies, and the revision of standards in key fields. We will improve the intellectual property protection mechanism compatible with international rules, explore and broaden the scope of trademark protection, optimize the copyright protection mechanism, and broaden channels for resolving intellectual property disputes. We will promote the international mutual recognition of rules and standards for energy efficiency, water efficiency, carbon footprint, and other criteria for key products, and advance the mandatory disclosure and voluntary disclosure of enterprise climate information and environmental information. Labor protection mechanisms suited to China’s national conditions and in line with international practices will be explored and improved. The reform of the government procurement system will be accelerated, with full implementation of the fair competition principle. We will take the lead in piloting the WTO agreements on electronic commerce and investment facilitation, and enhance the efficiency of cross-border payment and settlement, as well as the standardization and digitalization level of trade documents. Section 3 Optimization of the Regional Opening-up Layout We will develop diverse forms of high-level opening-up powerhouses and accelerate the formation of a comprehensive opening-up pattern featuring land-sea internal- external linkage and east-west mutual complementarity. We will build the Hainan Free Trade Port to high standards, implement full-island customs closure operations at a high 73 level, continuously improve the level of opening-up in key areas such as trade, investment, and factor flows, and gradually establish a policy and institutional system compatible with a high-standard free trade port. An upgrading strategy for pilot free trade zones will be implemented, and more intensive pilot projects for institutional opening-up will be carried out, with the level of innovation-led development being enhanced. Efforts will be made to coordinate the layout and building of major open cooperation platforms for scientific and technological innovation, trade in services, and industrial development, and support the optimization and integration of platforms with similar functions and adjacent locations. We will promote the innovation of management systems and operational models for national-level new areas and development zones, advance the transformation and upgrading of comprehensive bonded zones, and facilitate the building of key border development and opening-up pilot zones, industrial cooperation parks, border and port-adjacent industrial parks, and border (cross-border) economic cooperation zones. Box 11: Enhancement of the Functions of Opening-up Platforms 01 Hainan Free Trade Port We will roll out more open policies on personnel, transportation, finance, and data, and deepen reform in key areas, including the tax system and administrative framework. We will build a world-class commercial aerospace launch site and elevate the opening-up level of the international medical tourism pilot zone and the international education innovation pilot zone. 02 Pilot Free Trade Zones We will optimize the layout and scope of pilot free trade zones, assign tailored new pilot reform tasks based on local realities, deepen differentiated explorations, and drive the replication and promotion of reform outcomes. We will support eligible pilot free trade zones to conduct more pioneering trials in such areas as the digital economy, scientific and technological innovation, and offshore trade. 03 Border Cooperation Platforms We will develop industrial cooperation parks of high standards in Qinzhou- 74 Fangchenggang of Guangxi, Ruili of Yunnan, Yili of Xinjiang, Manzhouli of Inner Mongolia, and Mudanjiang of Heilongjiang. Key development and opening-up pilot zones in Heihe, Jilong, Dandong, Kashgar, and Alashankou will be developed. 04 Border Ports We will complete the construction of Heixiazi Island Port, Shuangmufeng Highway Port, and Ganqimaodu Railway Port. We will upgrade and renovate Ji’an, Manzhouli, Erenhot, Mohan, Hekou, and Mengding Qingshuihe highway ports, as well as Suifenhe Railway Port. 05 China-Europe (Asia) Railway Express Consolidation Centers We will support the construction of 14 consolidation centers and nodal cities of the China-Europe (Asia) Railway Express, including Shenyang, Tianjin-Shijiazhuang, Jinan-Qingdao, Lianyungang-Xuzhou, Jinhua (Yiwu), Hefei, Zhengzhou, Wuhan, Changsha, Guangzhou, Chengdu-Chongqing, Kunming, Xi’an, and Urumqi. Chapter 22 Higher Quality and Level of Trade and Investment Cooperation We will strengthen the coordination between imports and exports, attach equal importance to goods and services, and integrate the work of attracting foreign investment and making outbound investment, so as to forge new strengths in international trade and two-way investment cooperation. Section 1 Innovation-Driven Development of Trade We will accelerate the development of a strong nation in trade, advance the upgrading of foreign trade in quality and efficiency, and drive balanced development of imports and exports. We will upgrade and optimize trade in goods, advance market diversification, expand trade in intermediate goods, and push for the upgrading of processing trade to a higher level. Trade in services will be vigorously developed by improving the negative list management system for cross-border trade in services, relaxing restrictions on cross-border services such as cross-border delivery and the movement of natural persons, and encouraging service exports. We will also boost the international competitiveness of services, including transportation and tourism, develop trade in knowledge-intensive services, actively develop service outsourcing, and raise 75 the standardization level of trade in services. We will make rational adjustments to import tariff rates, revise the catalogues of encouraged imports of technologies, products, and services, and expand the import of advanced technical equipment, high-quality agricultural products, and producer services that are in urgent demand domestically. Digital trade and green trade will be developed through innovation, and opening-up in the digital field will be steadily expanded. We will support the development of new business forms and models such as cross-border e-commerce, optimize the layout and functions of overseas warehouses, and improve the policy environment for bonded maintenance and remanufacturing, as well as new forms of offshore trade. Regulatory innovation in customs clearance, taxation, and foreign exchange will be advanced, and international cooperation on standards, conformity assessment, inspection, and quarantine of foreign trade products will be promoted. We will enhance the functions of trade promotion platforms, increase support for export credit and credit insurance, and continue to host major exhibitions, including the China International Import Expo, the Canton Fair, and the China International Fair for Trade in Services. We will advance the integrated development of domestic and foreign trade, with the reform of standardization and certification for domestic and foreign trade being deepened. Efforts will be made to strengthen the prevention and control of trade risks and the response to trade friction, enrich policy tools such as trade adjustment assistance and trade remedies, and improve the export control system. Section 2 Better Attraction and Utilization of Foreign Investment We will continuously optimize the foreign investment environment by improving the service and support system for foreign investors to forge new strengths in attracting foreign investment. We will fully implement national treatment for foreign-invested enterprises, abolish documents and regulations inconsistent with the Foreign Investment Law of the People’s Republic of China, and effectively deliver on the principle of “granting market access alongside enabling qualified business operation.” We will leverage the demonstration effect of landmark foreign-invested projects and guide more foreign investment into such sectors as advanced manufacturing, modern services, high 76 and new technologies, energy conservation, and environmental protection. Support will be given to foreign investors to engage in collaboration with upstream and downstream industrial chains. We will also vigorously attract foreign investors to set up regional headquarters and R&D centers in China. The reinvestment of foreign capital within China will be facilitated. The “Invest in China” brand will be meticulously built. We will diversify the approaches to utilizing foreign investment, improve the management of foreign capital mergers and acquisitions, and broaden the channels for foreign capital to invest in the securities market. We will conduct foreign investment security reviews to a high standard, improve the comprehensive supervision system for external debt across all categories, consolidate the foreign investment statistics and information reporting system, and strengthen information sharing. Section 3 Promotion of International Industrial and Investment Cooperation We will effectively implement outbound investment management, improve the comprehensive overseas service system, advance the integration of trade and investment, and guide the rational and orderly cross-border layout of industrial and supply chains. We will further guide and regulate the direction of enterprises’ outbound investment and support qualified enterprises in carrying out mutually beneficial outbound investment cooperation. Enterprises in emerging industries, such as internet platforms and AI, will be encouraged to expand overseas application scenarios. Efforts will be made to support professional service institutions in consulting and assessment, legal services, accounting and auditing, credit rating, and mediation and arbitration in expanding their overseas service networks, and the foreign-related intellectual property protection system will be improved. We will strengthen the protection of the legitimate overseas interests of Chinese citizens and legal persons by establishing a mechanism for responding to claims and providing protection and remedies, and improving the protection system of overseas interests. We will leverage the role of overseas economic and trade cooperation zones and promote their coordinated development with domestic parks. Security reviews of outbound investment will be strengthened. Efforts will be made to improve the mechanisms for monitoring, prevention, control, and disposal of 77 outbound investment risks and relevant laws and regulations, so as to drive enterprises to enhance their capabilities in risk prevention and control and compliant operation. Chapter 23 High-Quality Co-building of the Belt and Road We will uphold the guiding principles of extensive consultation, joint contribution, and shared benefits, openness, green development, and integrity, as well as high standards, improvements in people’s livelihoods, and sustainability. We will improve the mechanisms for advancing high-quality co-building of the Belt and Road, and deepen “hard connectivity” in infrastructure, “soft connectivity” in rules and standards, and “heart-to-heart connectivity” with the peoples of co-building partner countries. Section 1 Deeper Alignment of Development Strategies We will strengthen policy communication and strategic alignment with Belt and Road partner countries and international organizations, strengthen the overall planning and management of cooperation programs, and enhance implementation coordination, assessment, and optimization. We will leverage the leading role of the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation and advance the building of cooperation platforms in sectors including energy, taxation, poverty alleviation, think tanks, and media. Exchange of governance experience with co-building partner countries will be deepened, and exchanges among groups such as entrepreneurs, experts, scholars, and young people will be boosted. We will coordinate multilateral and bilateral cooperation efforts, innovate Belt and Road cooperation models, consolidate existing cooperation outcomes, and expand the space for win-win development. Section 2 Improvement of the Layout of a Multi-Dimensional Connectivity Network We will deepen cooperation on major economic corridors and pivot ports, and smooth the diverse land, maritime, air, and cyber channels. The development level of China-Europe (Asia) Railway Express will be elevated, with active participation in the development of the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route. High-quality construction of projects, including the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan Railway and the Hungary-Serbia Railway, will be promoted. The integrated development of port, shipping, 78 and trade under the Maritime Silk Road Initiative will be advanced. The quality and efficiency upgrading of the Air Silk Road development will be promoted, with cooperation on building the spatial information corridor being enhanced. Moreover, the overseas application of Chinese standards will be vigorously advanced. We will further push forward the construction of Xinjiang and Fujian as core areas of the BRI. Section 3 Comprehensive Improvement of the Quality and Effectiveness of Practical Cooperation We will continuously expand trade and investment cooperation with Belt and Road partner countries and build high-standard “Silk Road E-Commerce” cooperation pilot zones. We will open up new areas for cooperation in green development, AI, the digital economy, health and wellness, tourism, agriculture, meteorology, BeiDou applications, and other fields. We will coordinate the development of major landmark projects and “small yet smart” livelihood projects. Efforts will be made to build a diversified, sustainable, and risk-controllable investment and financing system, and actively support institutions such as the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the New Development Bank, and the Silk Road Fund in fulfilling their roles. We will expand channels for people- to-people and cultural exchanges with partner countries in culture, education, archaeology, sports, and other fields, and implement the Belt and Road Science, Technology and Innovation Cooperation Action Plan with high quality. By enhancing our capacity for risk prevention and control, we will deepen the development of a Clean Silk Road and promote the high-quality development of the BRI in a more orderly, standardized, secure, and sustainable manner. Chapter 24 Development of a Community with a Shared Future for Mankind We will implement the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, the Global Civilization Initiative, and the Global Governance Initiative, actively advance major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics, and make China’s contribution to building a community with a shared future for mankind. Section 1 Active Participation in and Leadership of Global Economic Governance 79 We will advance the reform of global economic and financial governance, and drive the establishment and maintenance of a fair, just, open, inclusive, and mutually beneficial international economic order. The multilateral trading system with the World Trade Organization (WTO) at its core will be upheld, with full and deep engagement in WTO reform, and practices such as protectionism and the imposition of tariffs will be resolutely opposed. We will expand the global network of high-standard free trade areas, implement the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) with high standards, and advance its expansion and review processes. We will push for the implementation of the ASEAN-China Free Trade Area (ACFTA) 3.0 version, actively work towards accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA), and promote the negotiation and signing of more regional and bilateral trade and investment agreements. China’s proposals for international rules in emerging fields, including AI, the digital economy, green and low-carbon development, and outer space, will be actively put forward. Efforts will be made to strengthen international coordination on macroeconomic policies, promote the G20 in fulfilling its role as the premier forum for international economic cooperation, and boost the influence of cooperation mechanisms such as BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). We will actively participate in APEC cooperation and advance the building of the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP). Section 2 Promotion of a New Type of International Relations We will advocate and practice genuine multilateralism, and firmly uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core, the international order underpinned by international law, and the basic norms of international relations grounded in the purposes and principles of the UN Charter. We will expand the global network of partnerships and steer international order towards greater justice and equity. We will deepen integrated development with our neighbors, strengthen common security, consolidate strategic mutual trust, and build a community with a shared future for our neighborhood. We will promote coordination and sound interaction among major 80 countries, and sustain the overall stability of major-country relations. Solidarity and cooperation with developing countries will be deepened, with support for the Global South in uniting for self-development and strength. Multi-level and multi-domain mechanisms and platforms for civilizational dialogue and exchange will be developed to jointly build a global network for dialogue and cooperation on civilizations. We will champion the shared values of all humanity and advance the building of a world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security, common prosperity, openness and inclusiveness, as well as cleanliness and beauty. Section 3 Provision of More International Public Goods We will fulfil its role as a responsible major country and play a more active role in addressing global issues such as climate change, transnational crime, cybersecurity, major infectious diseases, and terrorism. We will resolutely oppose hegemony, power politics, and bullying, uphold international fairness and justice, and safeguard the common interests of the peoples of all countries. We will actively participate in the formulation of global security rules, engage constructively in the political settlement of international and regional hotspot issues, strengthen international security cooperation in fields such as food, energy, data, biology, land-sea corridors, and counter-terrorism, and promote the improvement of global security governance. Global poverty reduction cooperation will be fostered, and the construction and full-chain management of the foreign aid system will be strengthened, with increased efforts in foreign aid. We will implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Part Eight Accelerated Modernization of Agriculture and Rural Areas and Sound Advancement of All-Round Rural Revitalization We will give priority to the development of agriculture and rural areas while promoting integrated urban-rural development. The long-term mechanism for driving all- round rural revitalization will be improved. Modern agriculture will be vigorously developed. Efforts will be made to ensure modern living conditions in rural areas. We will 81 continue consolidating and expanding the achievements made in poverty alleviation and narrow urban-rural development gap, so as to secure faster progress in building China into a strong nation in agriculture. Chapter 25 Enhancement of Overall Production Capacity, Quality, and Performance of Agriculture We will work to balance output and production capacity, as well as agricultural production and ecological conservation, while attaching great importance to output expansion and income growth. The alignment of production with demand, structural optimization, and quality improvement will be advanced, and agricultural labor productivity and the contribution rate of scientific and technological progress will be improved. Section 1 Stronger Supply Guarantee for Grain and Other Major Agricultural Products We will deeply implement the strategy of storing grain in the land and in technology, and advance a new round of initiatives for increasing grain production capacity by 50 million metric tons. Efforts will be made to stabilize rice and wheat production, while enhancing maize and soybean production capacity and advancing large-scale per-unit- area yield improvements for grain, oilseed, and other major crops. Adapting to changes in the supply-demand situation, the agricultural production structure will be optimized, while the production of cotton, oilseeds, sugar, rubber, and other important agricultural products, as well as vegetable basket products will be stabilized, and characteristic agriculture developed. The institutional system for the tripartite protection of farmland quantity, quality, and ecology will be improved. Efforts will be made to exercise strict management over the process of offsetting cultivated land that has been put to non- agricultural uses. The quality acceptance mechanism for replenished farmland will be improved, and the layout of agricultural land will be optimized through a holistic approach. The construction and maintenance of high-standard cropland will be advanced to a high quality by improving the farmland irrigation and drainage system, better protecting black soil, managing acidified farmland, and steadily advancing the comprehensive use of saline and alkaline soils. Agricultural capacity for disaster 82 prevention and mitigation will be enhanced. A new round of agricultural resource zoning work will be carried out. Section 2 Greater Agricultural Science and Technology and Equipment Support We will coordinate efforts to make agriculture more technology-driven, eco-friendly, quality-focused, and brand-oriented, thereby turning it into a modern pillar sector. Efforts will be made to press ahead with initiatives to invigorate the seed industry. Specifically, we will strengthen the protection and utilization of germplasm resources, improve the commercial breeding system, and joint breeding breakthroughs, to develop new varieties with high yield, good quality, stress resistance, and wide adaptability, thus leading to a higher level of security assurance for seed sources. The agricultural machinery and equipment high-quality development action plan will be implemented to enhance agricultural efficiency through a combination of high-quality land, superior seeds, advanced machinery, and effective methods, and to raise the comprehensive mechanization rate of crop planting and harvesting to above 80%. Breakthroughs in key core technologies for core seed sources, agricultural machinery and equipment, agricultural water conservation, and related areas will be pushed forward. An agricultural science and technology innovation system with clear tiers, division of labor, and moderate competition will be built, and leading agricultural science and technology enterprises will be cultivated. The agricultural science and technology extension system, combining public-interest and commercial functions, will be improved. Geographical indication products and brands will be actively promoted. Section 3 Building of a Diversified Food Supply System We will continue to advance farming, forestry, animal husbandry, and fisheries in tandem and develop food resources through comprehensive and multi-pathway means. The comprehensive regulation and control of pig production capacity will be strengthened. Quality and efficiency improvements in the beef cattle, sheep, and dairy cattle industries will be advanced, and the transformation and upgrading of grassland animal husbandry will be accelerated. The development of the forage grass industry will be accelerated to expand silage feed production. Modern facility agriculture will be 83 developed to facilitate energy-efficient, machinery-friendly, and high-efficiency facility crop cultivation and intensive livestock and poultry farming. Scientific measures will be taken to develop food resources from rivers, lakes, seas, and forests. High-quality aquaculture will be developed. Woody grain and oil production will be steadily expanded. The development of non-timber forest-based economy and the forestry and grassland sectors will be boosted, with a greater level of mechanization. Synthetic biology technology will be actively developed to explore new sources of protein. Chapter 26 Advancement of a Beautiful and Harmonious Countryside for People to Live and Work in We will draw on the experience gained in the Green Rural Revival Program to adopt a zonal, category-based approach to systematically advancing rural revitalization. We will take well-ordered steps to put in place more complete infrastructure systems, make public services more accessible, and improve the living environment in rural areas through the thorough implementation of the Rural Construction Action Plan. Section 1 Creation of Fine Living Spaces in Rural Areas Taking the county as the unit, we will plan the layout of infrastructure and public services scientifically and promote the integrated planning, construction, and maintenance of county infrastructure. The layouts of villages and towns will be coordinated and optimized, with the moderate concentration of population and industries being guided. The rural construction implementation mechanism will be improved in a manner tailored to local conditions, with construction priorities and sequencing being rationally arranged. Coordinated efforts will be made to advance territorial space governance at the county level and steadily carry out comprehensive county-wide land improvement initiatives, with land for rural development being guaranteed based on the category. The construction and maintenance of rural roads, water supply, sewage management, energy, logistics, and information infrastructure will be solidly advanced. Dilapidated houses in rural areas will be continuously renovated. The conditions of county-wide ordinary high schools and boarding schools will be improved. The building of closely integrated county-level medical community consortia 84 will be advanced, with the focus on the downward deployment of medical and nursing staff. We will improve the three-tier county-township-village elderly care service network and offer flexible basic public services to villages in remote areas, with coordinated utilization of existing facility resources in rural areas. Sustained efforts will be devoted to upgrading toilets and clearing up waste in the rural living environment for improvement. Section 2 Development of People-Enriching County Industries We will develop county economies with unique features while promoting greater integration of primary, secondary, and tertiary sectors in rural areas. Strong counties in agriculture, industry, and tourism will be cultivated in a manner tailored to local conditions, while facilitating the integrated development of industry building, county strengthening, and people enriching. The transformation and upgrading of the agricultural products processing industry will be advanced. The construction of agricultural product markets and circulation networks will be strengthened, and the cold storage preservation and cold chain logistics system will be improved. The multiple functions of agriculture will be explored, with distinctive rural industries and new industries and business forms, such as rural leisure tourism, cultural experiences, and rural e-commerce, being cultivated and reinforced. Farmer cooperatives will be regulated and developed. Agricultural industrialization leading enterprises will be nurtured. The mechanisms for involving more rural residents will be refined, and supporting policies for new agricultural business entities will be driven to align with driving farmer income increases to help sustain rural income growth. Section 3 Improvement of Rural Governance In order to deeply advance rural comprehensive revitalization through party-building, we will improve the county-township-village governance system and select and deploy high-quality village “two-committee” leadership teams, and, in particular, team heads. In addition, the management mechanism governing the selection and assignment of first party secretaries and resident working teams will be optimized. The standardized development of villager self-governance organizations will be advanced, with the systems governing village affairs disclosure and democratic deliberation being improved 85 to encourage farmers to participate in village-level deliberation and consultation through multiple channels. Intensified efforts will be made to promote cultural and ethical development in the new area. Prosperity and development of rural culture will be pushed forward, and the initiative to promote social civility in rural areas will be implemented. The problem of excessively high bride prices in rural areas will be continuously addressed. Rural cultural heritage will be protected and carried forward, while enhancing the protection of vernacular architecture and traditional villages, and carrying forward farming civilization. Box 12: Agricultural and Rural Modernization 01 High-Standard Cropland Construction We will give priority to building permanent basic farmland in the northeast black soil region, plain areas, areas with water conservancy irrigation conditions, and areas with high grain output and great yield improvement potential into high-standard croplands. All qualifying permanent basic farmland in the 720 key counties for grain production capacity improvement will be built into high-standard croplands. 02 Modern Seed Industry Development We will build and improve the national protection and utilization system for crop, livestock and poultry, aquatic, forestry and grassland, and microbial germplasm resources. The variety testing and evaluation system will be optimized. Seed industry innovation bases and seed production and multiplication bases will be built. The cultivation of breakthrough major varieties will be strengthened. Through these efforts, we will drive the self-sufficiency rate of core agricultural seed sources to reach 85%. 03 Animal and Plant Epidemic and Disease Prevention and Control We will improve the monitoring and early warning system for crop diseases and pests and animal epidemics while enhancing the full-chain management capacity for animal and plant disease prevention and treatment, emergency response, quarantine, and harmless treatment. Technical support, such as pesticide and veterinary drug monitoring and evaluation, will be strengthened. 86 04 Agricultural Pollution Management from Non-point Sources Focusing on the Yangtze River, Yellow River, and other river basins, we will implement comprehensive management of agricultural pollution from non-point sources and coordinate and advance the scientific application of chemical fertilizers and pesticides, as well as the resource utilization of livestock and poultry manure and other agricultural waste. 05 Gap-Filling in the Provision of Proper Modern Amenities in Rural Areas We will support qualifying villages in addressing inadequacies tailored to local conditions, in intra-village roads, water supply, and drainage, sanitary toilet renovation, domestic waste and sewage treatment, and elderly care service facilities. Chapter 27 Improvement of the Effectiveness of Policies Aimed at Strengthening Agriculture, Benefiting Farmers, and Enriching Rural Areas We will improve the institutional mechanisms and policy system for the priority development of agriculture and rural areas, and promote the two-way flow of production factors between urban and rural areas, so as to enhance the vitality of agricultural and rural development. Section 1 Investment and Financial Guarantees for Agriculture and Rural Areas We will improve the diversified investment framework based on priority fiscal support, preferential financial backing, and broad participation by non-governmental entities, all to ensure that investment in rural revitalization continues to rise. Priority will be given to ensure general public budget investment in agriculture and rural areas to improve the effectiveness and capital efficiency of fiscal agriculture-support policies. The income protection mechanism for grain-growing farmers will be improved. Stronger prices, subsidies, and insurance support will be provided in a more coordinated way to keep farmers motivated in growing grains or engaging in other agricultural activities. The interest compensation for major grain-producing areas will be increased, and a cross- provincial mechanism for major grain-purchasing areas to compensate major grain- producing areas will be implemented, with greater rewards and subsidies for major grain- producing counties. The financial services system suited to the characteristics of 87 agriculture and rural areas will be improved. Multi-level agricultural insurance will be developed, and the development of distinctive agricultural product insurance will be supported. Section 2 Deepened Agricultural and Rural Reform We will consolidate and improve the basic rural management system. Rural land contract relationships will be kept stable by making steady progress in trials to extend rural land contracts by another 30 years upon the expiration of the second-round contracts. In addition, the price formation mechanism and service management system for the transfer of contracted land management rights will be improved. Appropriately scaled agricultural operations will be developed. The quality of new types of agribusiness will be improved. The commercial service framework for agriculture will be made more accessible and efficient. Small rural households will be encouraged to become involved in modern agricultural development. The comprehensive reform of supply and marketing cooperatives will be deepened. We will utilize rural collective land designated for business-related construction more efficiently and intensively. Its entry into the market will be advanced in an orderly manner, and the mechanism for the distribution of land appreciation income will be improved. The completion of the unified house-and-land homestead right confirmation, registration, and certification will be accelerated. The standardized management of rural homesteads will be strengthened, while putting idle land and vacant housing to good use in accordance with the law. The reform of the rural collective property rights system will be deepened, and support will be provided for the development of new rural collective economies. The standardized development of the rural property rights trading market will be strengthened. Incentives will be provided for various types of personnel to offer services, start businesses, or seek employment in rural areas. Section 3 Improvement of the Regular Assistance Mechanism We will make coordinated efforts to establish regular mechanisms for preventing rural residents from lapsing or relapsing into poverty. We will continue to provide well- targeted assistance, strengthen support to help those most in need, ramp up 88 development-based assistance through industry, employment, and other means, and boost internal impetus for development. In addition, we will provide multi-tiered and categorized assistance for underdeveloped areas, making every effort to guard against any large-scale lapse or relapse into poverty. Efforts will be made to optimize the scope of existing key counties that receive assistance outlined in the national rural revitalization initiative, while improving supporting policies and incentive and constraint mechanisms. Mechanisms governing east-west cooperation and counterpart cooperation will be optimized. Targeted assistance will continue to be provided by central-level units, and team-based assistance by officials and talent will be further carried out. We will attach great importance to large and extra-large relocation settlements and strengthen follow- up support for relocation and resettlement. Market-oriented consumption-based assistance will be advanced. The standardized management of assistance project assets will be strengthened. Work-relief programs will be implemented in an intensified and expanded manner. Relocation for disaster avoidance will be planned and coordinated. Part Nine Optimization of the Regional Economic Layout and Promotion of Coordinated Regional Development We will give full play to the synergies between the coordinated regional development strategy, major regional strategies, the functional zoning strategy, and the new urbanization strategy. We will coordinate the deepened implementation of strategies within regions and the interconnected development between regions. We will improve the distribution of major productive forces and ensure that key regions play their role as growth poles. We will develop a regional economic layout and a territorial space system that enable regions to leverage their complementary strengths in pursuit of high-quality development. Chapter 28 Enhancement of the Coordinated Regional Development We will continue to implement regional development strategies, adopt policies tailored to the time, place, and type of area, encourage all localities to leverage their comparative advantages and give full play to their respective strengths. We will promote 89 coordinated development between the eastern, central, and western regions, and between the southern and northern regions, and promote relative balance in the course of development. Section 1 Elevation of Coordinated Development Between the Eastern, Central, Western, and Northeastern Regions Focusing on large-scale protection, large-scale opening-up, and high-quality development, we will take solid steps to open up a new vista in the large-scale development of the western region. Building on functional positioning, resource endowments, and industrial foundations, we will build up and further enhance distinctive and advantageous industries, carry out a number of major projects for the construction of ecological barriers, and promote internal and external opening-up through corridors, hubs, and platforms. Bearing in mind the national defense, food, ecological, energy, and industrial security, we will promote new breakthroughs in the full revitalization of the northeast region. We will improve energy corridors and transport networks, continue to consolidate and enhance comprehensive grain production capacity, and step up the transformation of comparative advantages in science and education, agriculture, and ecology into development outcomes, as well as accelerate northward opening-up. We will introduce a new chapter of accelerated rise of the central region. The ability to guarantee grain and energy raw material security will be strengthened. The modern equipment manufacturing and high-technology industries will be optimized and enhanced. A comprehensive transport hub system will be built, and high-level opening- up in inland areas will be advanced. We will encourage the eastern region to accelerate modernization, strengthen innovation of original and disruptive science and technology, and play a leading role in the building of advanced manufacturing clusters with international competitiveness and modern services industry hubs. Section 2 Consolidation and Enhancement of the Role of the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei Region, the Yangtze River Delta, and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area as Growth Engines We will deeply advance Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei coordinated development, forming a 90 more closely integrated, all-round coordinated development pattern. We will actively, prudently, and in an orderly manner relieve Beijing of functions non-essential to its role as China’s capital. The implementation of landmark relief projects and policies will be continuously driven forward. The capital’s functions will be optimized and upgraded, and a modern capital metropolitan area will be built. Xiong’an New Area will be built as a modern city to high standards and high quality, and the management system will be improved. The comprehensive service level of the Beijing municipal sub-center will be improved, and the comprehensive carrying capacity of the Tianjin Binhai New Area will be improved. We will deeply advance the integrated development of the Yangtze River Delta, improving the institutional mechanisms for the integrated development of the innovation chain and industrial chain, infrastructure, and ecological environmental protection. The building of Shanghai as “Five Centers”—economy, innovation, finance, trade and shipping—will be accelerated. The Yangtze River Delta eco-green integrated demonstration zone will be built to a high standard. The influence of the Hongqiao International Open Hub will be enhanced. The integrated development of Shanghai and Suzhou in key fields will be supported, and paired cooperation between Shanghai, Jiangsu, and Zhejiang and cities in northern Anhui Province will be deepened. We will deepen the building of the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area. Rule and mechanism alignment in science and technology innovation, economic development, and public services will be strengthened, with the rule of law system strengthened. The pilot role of major cooperation platforms will be given full play, and the building of a world-class bay area will be accelerated. Section 3 Development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt and Ecological Protection and High-Quality Development of the Yellow River Basin We will step up conservation and stop over development of the Yangtze River Economic Belt, continuing to drive its high-quality development by prioritizing ecology and green development. We will strengthen pollution control in key areas and the protection and management of important lakes, unswervingly implement the ten-year fishing ban on the Yangtze River, and orderly improve the urban domestic sewage 91 collection and treatment along the river. Efforts will be made to maintain the water quality of Yangtze River main channel at Grade II and make its main tributaries basically reach Grade II. We will keep the Yangtze River golden waterway open, enhance high-level protection and rational, efficient utilization of shoreline resources, drive forward the green transformation and upgrading of industries along the river, and promote the coordinated and interconnected development of the upper, middle, and lower reaches. We will fully advance ecological protection and high-quality development of the Yellow River Basin. Efforts will be made to continuously improve the large-scale protection, large-scale coordination and systematically promote water source conservation in the upper reaches, soil and water conservation in the middle reaches, and wetland protection and ecological management in the lower reaches. We will step up comprehensive management of the Huangshui River, the Weihe River, and other important tributaries, making every effort to address the challenges in water conservation and water use control. We will also deepen the building of pioneer zones for the Yellow River Basin ecological protection and high-quality development. Section 4 Support for the Revitalization and Development of Special-Type Areas We will accelerate the revitalization and development of old revolutionary base areas, carry forward the “red gene,” traditions of revolution, and develop distinctive industries. We will support old revolutionary base areas in leveraging their comparative advantages to cultivate internal momentum and deepening cooperation with key paired cities. We will take targeted measures to support the development of border areas. We will coordinate and promote border safeguarding and consolidation, border prosperity and enrichment, border strengthening and defense fortification, and opening-up along the border. Innovation and development of border trade will be promoted. Investment in education, healthcare, and other fields in border areas will be increased. More robust border-protection subsidy policies will be implemented. The building of key towns and villages along the border will be solidly advanced. We will support the development of port cities and drive the high-quality development of frontier areas. We will support ecological restoration and green development in areas with ecological degradation. We 92 will promote the old industrial bases and resource-based regions to pursue transformation, support the resource-exhausted cities in developing alternative industries, and drive the coal mining subsidence areas and independent industrial and mining areas to carry out comprehensive treatment, consolidation and utilization. Chapter 29 Promotion of Interconnected Development Between Regions Using major corridors between regions and across river basins as the foundation, the interconnected development between city clusters as the vehicle, and the coordination of institutional mechanisms as the guarantee, we will drive different regions towards mutual integration, mutual promotion, mutual benefits and shared gains, thus expanding the space for domestic economic circulation. Section 1 Better Layout for Interconnected Development Between Regions We will strengthen regional infrastructure connectivity. We will advance the construction of major corridors between regions and across river basins, such as the Yangtze River comprehensive transport corridor and those along borders and coasts. The supporting role of major cross-regional projects such as the West-to-East Power Transmission Project and the East Data West Computing Initiative will be leveraged. Efforts will be made to enhance city cluster integration and the coordinated linkage of key city clusters and to drive efficient collaboration in regional innovation chains and industrial chains. We will support the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region, the Yangtze River Delta, and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area in building world-class city clusters. We will elevate the development capacity of the Chengdu-Chongqing economic circle and build it into an important growth pole for high-quality development. We will accelerate the development of the city clusters along the middle reaches of the Yangtze River. A number of regional center cities will be cultivated and developed. We will support areas straddling provincial borders to pursue cooperative development and see that cross-regional connected areas play a better supporting and driving role. We will support economically strong provinces in taking the initiative to achieve breakthroughs from reform, provide policy empowerment, and guarantee factors input, playing a leading and exemplary role in the advancement of Chinese modernization. 93 Section 2 Refinement of Cross-Regional Cooperation Mechanisms We will deepen cooperation across administrative divisions, improve mechanisms to facilitate coordinated planning, industrial collaboration, and benefit sharing between regions. We will strengthen the coordinated implementation and aligned planning of regional development strategies and promote the construction of cross-regional platforms and major engineering projects. We will refine the mechanisms and platform systems to facilitate industrial transfer cooperation and explore benefit-sharing mechanisms between transfer origins and destinations for taxation, land use, and carbon emission quotas, to promote the orderly transfer of key industries in the country. We will support coordinated inter-provincial allocation of construction land quotas within city clusters and metropolitan areas in accordance with plans, and delve into regional collaborative legislation. We will also support interest compensation between upstream and downstream areas within river basins and between resource exporting and importing areas, as well as the expansion of river basin economy and other models in a manner tailored to local conditions. The high-quality development of ethnic minority areas will be accelerated, and the exchange and integration among all ethnic groups will be deepened. The support mechanisms for Xinjiang and Xizang will be improved, and the preferential support for southern Xinjiang will be increased. Chapter 30 Optimization of the Territorial Space Development We will uphold the principle of aligning development with local natural conditions such as mountains and rivers, grain production, agriculture, industry, or business. With that in mind, we will refine the functional zoning institutions and systems, enhance the precision of targeted policies, and drive the formation of a spatial development pattern with effective functional zoning constraints and orderly territorial development. Section 1 Better Implementation of the Functional Zoning Strategy We will keep the general layout encompassing urban zones, major agricultural production zones, and key ecosystem service zones stable. We will appropriately optimize the functions of certain areas to facilitate urban zones in accommodating more economic activities and population, the major agricultural production zones in enhancing 94 comprehensive agricultural production capacity, and the key ecosystem service zones in improving natural ecosystem quality. We will further clarify and define special functional zones, which will, building on their principal functions and tailored to their specific conditions, play additional functions of national security, energy and resource supply, cultural conservation and heritage, and marine resource protection and utilization. We will refine the differentiated support policies and assessment and evaluation mechanisms for different functional zones and rationally allocate new construction land, water resources, and other quotas. Section 2 Optimization of Territorial Space Regulation We will improve the territorial space planning system. Based on national development plans and in conjunction with the results of territorial space planning assessments, we will dynamically revise the territorial space planning and ensure its foundational role in guiding the development and protection of national territory. We will enforce and refine arable land and permanent basic farmland, ecological red lines, and urban development boundaries, as well as other regulatory controls and boundaries. Regulatory objectives will be reasonably optimized around the implementation of major national strategies. The quality of permanent basic cropland will be improved. The exit of unstable farmland, disaster-damaged farmland, and similar categories will be driven in an orderly manner, and prompt replenishment will be ensured. We will study and improve differentiated regulatory approaches for human activities within ecological red lines, as well as differentiated exploration and extraction policies for strategic minerals. We will optimize urban development boundaries in accordance with population mobility and industrial development trends. We will also coordinate the use of nearshore and deep offshore spaces. Section 3 Coordinated Governance of Territorial Space We will establish and improve systems for the regulation of land use purposes and planning permission in territorial space and implement differentiated and rigorous regulation on territorial space use in different regions and categories. We will improve the guarantee mechanism of land use for major national projects and leverage the role 95 of a “single map” for natural resources management and territorial space planning. Provincial-level governments will be granted greater autonomy in construction land coordination. We will explore an approach to keep the total area of construction land within the limit set for each planning period and, subject to not exceeding the total area of land for construction at the provincial level, allow the coordinated arrangement of municipal and county construction land and the differentiated allocation ratios of the existing and incremental land resources. We will ensure the supply of land by taking stock of existing and new land resources. We will also promote the organic integration of land use review and planning permission, as well as the joint approval of land use, sea use, forestry use, and grassland use. Chapter 31 In-Depth Advancement of People-Centered New Urbanization We will continue to improve urbanization quality, promote the full integration of the rural migrant population into cities, optimize the scale and structure of cities, drive the connotative development of cities, and promote the coordinated development and intensive and compact layout of cities in different sizes and small towns. Section 1 Citizenization of the Rural Migrant Population We will uphold an active, prudent and category-based approach to coordinate and deepen the household registration system reform and the provision of basic public services at places of permanent residence. We will refine the point-based household registration policies of megacities and ultra-large cities, fully establish street or community public household registrations, and expand the channels for the rural migrant population with stable employment and residence to obtain household registrations. We will take explorative steps to establish a national unified population management system and make progressive moves toward household registration at the place of permanent residence. The proportion of rural migrant workers contributing to urban employee social insurance will be steadily raised. More cities will be driven to incorporate non-registered permanent residents meeting the conditions into the coverage of public rental housing. Based on local conditions, we will cut restrictive conditions for participation in the senior high school entrance examination at the place of inflow, with measures promoting the 96 provision of continuous basic education to eligible children. The linking mechanism for “people, land, and money” will be further improved. We will protect the lawful land rights and interests of farmers who have moved to cities with household registration, safeguard their land contract rights, homestead use rights, and collective income distribution rights in accordance with law, and explore an approach for their voluntary and compensated exits. Section 2 Cultivation and Development of Modern Metropolitan Areas We will improve the institutional mechanisms for integrated development of metropolitan areas, building convenient and efficient commuter belts, tiered supporting industrial circles, and convenient and shared living circles. We will promote governance modernization in megacities and ultra-large cities, strengthen and refine core functions, and leverage their strength to drive the joint development of surrounding cities and counties. We will push forward the unified preparation of plans, coordinated deployment of projects, and collaborative formulation of policies within metropolitan areas. We will strengthen the alignment of spatial layout and land use purposes between different administrative regions. In localities with the necessary conditions, we will explore the coordinated allocation of public resources and factor inputs using the metropolitan area as the basic unit. Commuting in metropolitan areas will become more efficient, unconnected inter-city road sections and bottleneck sections will be connected at a faster pace, and the mutual acceptance and mutual recognition of science and technology innovation vouchers and of employment and residence duration will be driven forward. A number of metropolitan areas will be fostered in the central, western, and northeastern regions, and the influencing and driving capacity of central cities will be enhanced. Section 3 Building of People-Centered Modern Cities We will drive the transformation of urban development models, building people- centered modern cities that are innovative, livable, beautiful, resilient, civilized, and smart. We will carry out special actions to stimulate industrial innovation, enhancing cities’ capacity as sources of industrial innovation. We will effectively push forward urban 97 renewal, carry out urban inspections, move faster to build comprehensive communities, and improve the implementation mechanism of urban renewal. We will establish a planning adjustment mechanism to meet the needs of building functions conversion and mixture, as well as a sustainable system that encompasses urban construction, operation, investment, and financing. Urban underground spaces will be efficiently utilized. We will drive forward the green and low-carbon transformation of urban development, optimize urban public transport services, and improve the parks, greenways, and slow-traffic systems, as well as continue to improve the 15-minute fitness circles. We will step up the construction of projects critical to the safety of urban infrastructure, push forward the renovation of ageing pipeline networks and dilapidated housing, and enhance urban drainage and flood prevention capacity. Super-tall buildings will be strictly restricted, and the fire prevention and rescue capacity will be improved for high-rise buildings. We will place greater emphasis on city appearance and architectural design to make urban buildings better reflect Chinese aesthetics and the fashion of the times. The building of interwoven communities will be strengthened. We will promote the comprehensive digitalization of cities and improve the city management mechanisms and operation, management and services platforms, making city governance smarter and more refined. Section 4 Category-Based Urbanization with Counties as Important Carriers Building on resource endowments, geographic conditions, and development foundations, we will guide the development of counties based on their categories, such as counties adjacent to large cities, principal agricultural production districts or counties, districts or counties of key ecosystem service functions, and counties along land borders. For different categories, we will form distinctive pathways of development and promote the rational concentration of populations in counties and central towns in an orderly manner. We will enhance industrial support for counties with urbanization potential, so that more rural migrant people can obtain employment and settle down nearby or return to start businesses. We will support counties in filling gaps in infrastructure and public services, enhance the comprehensive carrying capacity of counties, and strengthen 98 county-level fiscal capacity guarantees. For county-level cities and mega-towns with large economic scale and fast population growth, the economic and social management authority will be adjusted and expanded when appropriate. For counties with small populations, the institutional organization will be prudently optimized. Box 13: Urban Renewal and Metropolitan Area Construction 01 Construction and Renovation of Underground Pipeline Networks We will build and renovate approximately 200,000 km of urban gas pipeline networks, approximately 175,000 km of drainage networks, approximately 175,000 km of water supply networks, approximately 100,000 km of sewage networks, and approximately 120,000 km of heating networks, while simultaneously advancing intelligent upgrading. Comprehensive utility tunnels will be built in a manner tailored to local conditions. 02 Improvement of Livability and Habitability Focusing on Grade C and D hazardous residential buildings on state-owned land, we will renovate approximately 500,000 units (rooms) of dilapidated urban housing. Approximately 115,000 old residential compounds will be renovated. Based on a comprehensive assessment of needs, we will develop subsidized housing through multiple channels according to local conditions. We will advance the renovation of urban villages in a stable and orderly manner. 03 Renovation of Old Streets and Factory Areas We will drive the functional transformation, business upgrading, and vitality improvement of old streets, and use market-based approaches to activate and utilize idle and low-efficiency factory areas, workshops, and facilities. Approximately 1,500 old streets and factory areas will be renovated and upgraded. 04 Improvement of Inter-City Commuting Efficiency in Metropolitan Areas We will complete inter-city railways including the Beijing-Binhai New Area and 99 Shenzhen-Daya Bay lines and use existing railways to operate inter-city and metropolitan area (suburban) trains. A number of national expressways surrounding metropolitan areas and cities with pending connection sections will be built. Chapter 32 Strengthening of Marine Development, Utilization, and Protection We will uphold the coordinated land and marine development, improve the capacity for sea management, accelerate the building of a strong maritime nation, and forge a path of maritime strength with Chinese characteristics. Section 1 High-Quality Development of the Marine Economy We will strengthen, improve, and grow the marine industry and advance in an orderly manner the development and utilization of marine energy resources. We will develop deep and distant-water aquaculture and modern deep-sea fishing industry, consolidate and enhance our edge in marine equipment manufacturing, and build up emerging marine industries such as marine biopharmaceuticals and seawater desalination. We will develop modern shipping services and create marine cultural tourism destinations with distinctive features. The capacity of strategic marine science and technology will be strengthened, and innovation in marine science and technology will be strengthened. We will strengthen support and security systems for deep-sea and polar-region expeditions and develop ocean-going meteorological navigation services. Deep-sea engineering projects will be implemented to enhance capabilities of deep-sea access, detection, development, and safety guarantee. We will reinforce the overall planning of major bays, improve the economic development of the northern, eastern, and southern marine economic circles, optimize the layout of marine economy development demonstration zones, and develop modern marine cities with distinctive characteristics. We will deepen port-industry-city integrated development in a manner tailored to local conditions and encourage coastal regions to enhance marine economy cooperation with inland regions. We will improve the system and mechanism for promoting marine economic development. Policy support will be enhanced through fiscal, tax, and financial 100 instruments, and the statistical monitoring system of the marine economy will be optimized. Section 2 Protection of the Marine Ecological Environment We will strengthen the source-level prevention of marine environmental risks and advance pollution control, shoreline remediation, and protection and restoration in key sea areas, achieving a proportion of good-quality nearshore waters of approximately 86%. Reclamation will be strictly controlled. The protection requirements for natural coastlines, coastal wetlands, and uninhabited islands will be fully implemented, and the natural coastline retention rate of the mainland will be maintained at no less than 35%. Efforts will be made to strengthen ocean cleanup and use marine litter as resources. We will formulate differentiated sea use standards and norms and actively advance the tiered and three-dimensional utilization of sea areas. The island development and protection management system will be improved, and island development will be advanced in a categorized and orderly manner. We will carry out a new round of comprehensive marine surveys, improve the marine ecological early warning and monitoring system, enhance the risk prevention and control capacity for major marine disasters, and guard against and respond to seawater backflow. We will explore the implementation of marine carbon sink accounting. Section 3 Safeguarding of Maritime Rights and Interests We will actively build a marine community with a shared future, expand blue partnerships, and drive the building of a just and equitable international maritime order. We will actively participate in the formulation of international marine governance rules and fulfil our obligations under the Agreement under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea on the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Marine Biological Diversity of Areas beyond National Jurisdiction (BBNJ Agreement). We will step up international cooperation in marine scientific research and surveys, disaster prevention and mitigation, and the blue economy. We will continue to improve multilateral and bilateral cooperation platforms and mechanisms in the marine domain and push forward the establishment of dedicated international marine organizations in China. Marine 101 awareness will be enhanced. Situational assessment, risk prevention, and legal and rights-based struggle will be strengthened. The institutional mechanisms will be improved to safeguard marine rights and interests, and efforts will be made to enhance maritime law enforcement and maritime judicial capacity. Part Ten Promotion of the Cultural Innovation and Creativity of the Chinese Nation and the Flourishing Development of Socialist Culture We will uphold the guiding position of Marxism in the ideological sphere, draw on the profound heritage of Chinese civilization, and adapt to the evolving landscape of information technology. We will foster a new-era socialist culture with Chinese characteristics that possesses strong ideological leadership, spiritual cohesion, value appeal, and international influence, and steadily advance the building of a strong cultural nation. Chapter 33 Promotion and Practice of the Core Socialist Values We will guide cultural development with the core socialist values, strengthen mainstream values, mainstream public opinion, and mainstream culture, and continuously cultivate the Chinese spirit, Chinese values, and Chinese strength. Section 1 Normalization and Institutionalization of Education in Ideals and Convictions We will deepen the study, publicity, and education of the Chinese Communist Party’s (CPC) innovative theories and persistently use Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era to unify thinking and strengthen moral conviction. Systematic and theoretically grounded research and interpretation will be enhanced, along with accessible and widely disseminated public outreach. We will firmly maintain the Party’s leadership over ideological work and fully implement the responsibility system for ideological governance. The spiritual legacy of the CPC members will be promoted, and education in patriotism, collectivism, and socialism will be deepened. Ideological and political work will be strengthened and improved, with 102 campus cultural development being advanced, and “resources and materials of CPC and revolution” (red resources and materials) being effectively utilized to reinforce ideals and convictions among young people. Reform of the mainstream media system will be deepened, with integrated management of news communication and online public opinion being promoted, and the capacity to guide mainstream opinion being enhanced. Efforts will be made to advance the Marxist Theory Research and Development Project through innovation, implement the Philosophy and Social Sciences Innovation Project, and accelerate the development of an independent knowledge system for Chinese philosophy and social sciences. New-type think tanks with Chinese characteristics will also be strengthened. Section 2 Raised Level of Social Civility We will promote coordinated progress in cultural and ethical development in both urban and rural areas, harnessing the power of culture to cultivate character and elevate moral sensibilities, thereby nurturing a confident and vigorous national spirit. Efforts to strengthen civic morality in the new era will be intensified, with strong promotion of social ethics, professional ethics, family virtues, and personal integrity. The development of positive family traditions and family education will be reinforced, alongside enhanced moral and ideological education for minors. A culture of honesty and integrity, as well as clean governance, will be encouraged. The exemplary and guiding role of outstanding individuals will be highlighted through stronger publicity and study of heroes and model figures, and the system of honors and commendations for meritorious service will be improved. Community conventions, village regulations, and similar mechanisms will be leveraged to promote positive social customs. Mechanisms for cultivating, practicing, and promoting civility will be improved and innovated. Section 3 Strengthened Online Civilization Construction We will improve the governance capacity in the cultural sphere under conditions of informatization, cultivate a positive, healthy, uplifting, and virtuous online culture, and work together to build a vibrant shared spiritual home in cyberspace. Online content development and management will be strengthened to improve the digital dissemination 103 of the Party’s innovative theories and fine traditional Chinese culture. An integrated all- media communication system will be advanced, with mechanisms and evaluation systems suited to all-media production and dissemination. A comprehensive framework for internet governance will be improved, along with long-term mechanisms for regulating the online ecosystem. Standards for content production, information release, and dissemination will be strengthened, and internet-based enterprises will be encouraged to fulfil their social responsibilities. Coordinated development and regulation of broadcasting, television, and online audio-visual services will also be advanced. Chapter 34 Vigorous Development and Prosperity of Cultural Undertakings We will improve the public cultural service system, preserve and promote Chinese fine traditional culture, and enable the public to enjoy richer and higher-quality cultural life. Section 1 Promotion of Flourishing Cultural Creation and Production We will uphold its people-centered orientation in cultural creation, regard quality improvement as the lifeline of literary and artistic creation, foster a sound cultural ecosystem, and enhance the capacity for original cultural creation. Mechanisms for supporting, guiding, and organizing literary and artistic creation and production will be improved, and a series of initiatives for new-era artistic creation will be implemented. High-quality works in news publishing, broadcasting, film and television, and literature and arts will be encouraged, with new forms of mass culture emerging in the internet era being fostered. A large, well-structured, and innovative pool of high-level cultural professionals will be cultivated. Efforts will be made to deepen reform of public cultural institutions, improve the development mechanisms for performing arts organizations, and strengthen comprehensive governance of the entertainment sector. Section 2 Improvement of the Level of Public Cultural Services We will continue to deliver cultural benefits to the people by implementing initiatives to improve the quality and efficiency of public cultural services and ensuring that high- quality cultural resources reach grassroots communities. Mass cultural activities will be 104 widely promoted, with community arts organizations being strengthened. New types of public cultural spaces, such as city reading rooms, community cultural stations, and cultural corridors, will be developed to provide accessible cultural services close to where people live. Efforts will be made to better utilize public cultural facilities, improve mechanisms for social participation in cultural services, and advance the reforms separating ownership and usage rights of public cultural facilities in an orderly manner. The performance of smart museums, smart libraries, and public cultural cloud services will be enhanced. Nationwide reading initiatives will be further promoted to foster a culture of reading across society. Construction of new broadcasting and television networks will be strengthened, with capacity for ultra-high-definition content production and broadcasting being improved, and governance of complex and layered charging practices on internet television platforms being addressed. Section 3 Strengthened Protection and Transmission of Cultural Heritage We will promote systematic protection and unified oversight of cultural heritage, integrate management resources, and establish a supervision system for heritage protection. Major initiatives to preserve and develop fine traditional Chinese culture will be advanced, and a symbolic system representing Chinese civilization will be established. Programs exploring the origins of Chinese civilization and advancing Chinese archaeology will be implemented. Efforts will be made to strengthen the protection of world cultural heritage sites, historic relics and ruins, revolutionary cultural relics, museum collections, and cultural landscapes, with historic cities, districts, towns, and villages receiving more effective protection and dynamic preservation. National cultural parks centered on the Great Wall, the Grand Canal, the Long March, the Yellow River, and the Yangtze River will be developed and better utilized, with improved management systems. Protection of archival and documentary heritage and endangered ancient books will be strengthened, and the preservation and transmission of classical Chinese literature will be advanced. Efforts to protect and transmit intangible cultural heritage will be intensified, including the creation of new scenarios for experiential learning and transmission. Work on local gazetteers will also be strengthened and 105 improved. 106 World Cultural Heritage Sites in 26 Fujian Tulou 33–7 Sixian Section of the Tongji Canal World Natural Heritage Sites in China China 1 Imperial Palaces of the Ming and Qing 27 Mount Wutai 33–8 Hua County-Xun County Section of 42 Huanglong Scenic and Historic Dynasties in Beijing and Shenyang the Wei River/Yongji Canal Interest Area 1–1 The Forbidden City 28 Historic Monuments of Dengfeng 33–9 Site of Liyang Granary 43 Jiuzhaigou Valley Scenic and 1–2 Mukden Palace in “The Centre of Heaven and Historic Interest Area Earth” 2 Mausoleum of the First Qin Emperor 29 West Lake Cultural Landscape of 33–10 Qingkou Hydraulic Hub 44 Wulingyuan Scenic and Historic Hangzhou Interest Area 3 Mogao Caves 30 Site of Xanadu 33–11 Site of the Governor General's 45 Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Office of Water Transport Protected Areas 4 Peking Man Site at Zhoukoudian 21 Cultural Landscape of Honghe 33–12 Yangzhou Section of the Huai- 46 Sichuan Giant Panda Sanctuaries Hani Rice Terraces Yang Canal 5 The Great Wall 32 Silk Roads: the Routes Network 33–13 Changzhou Urban Section of the 47 South China Karst of Chang’an-Tianshan Corridor Jiangnan Canal 5–1 Jiayuguan Pass 32–1 Weiyang Palace, Chang'an 33–14 Wuxi Urban Section of the 47–1 Libo Karst, Guizhou 5–2 Shanhaiguan Pass City of the Han Dynasty Jiangnan Canal 47–2 Wulong Karst, Chongqing 5–3 Badaling 6 Ancient Building Complex in the 32–2 Luoyang City of Han and 33–15 Suzhou Section of the Jiangnan 47–3 Shilin Karst, Yunnan Wudang Mountains Wei Dynasties Canal 47–4 Shibing Karst, Guizhou 7 Historic Ensemble of the Potala 32–3 Daming Palace, Chang’an 33–16 Jiaxing-Hangzhou Section of the 47–5 Jinfoshan Karst, Chongqing Palace, Lhasa (Jokhang Temple City of the Tang Dynasty Jiangnan Canal 47–6 Guilin Karst, Guangxi Monastery, Norbulingka) 32–4 Dingding Gate, Luoyang 33–17 Nanxun Section of the Jiangnan 47–7 Huanjiang Karst, Guangxi City of the Sui and Tang Canal Dynasties 8 Mountain Resort and its Outlying 32–5 Qocho City 33–18 Xiaoshan, Hangzhou-Shaoxing 48 Mount Sanqingshan National Park Temples, Chengde Section of the Zhedong Canal 9 Temple and Cemetery of Confucius 32–6 Ruins of Jiaohe 33–19 Shangyu-Yuyao Section of the 49 China Danxia and the Kong Family Mansion in Qufu Zhedong Canal 10 Lushan National Park 32–7 Site of Bashbaliq City 33–20 Ningbo Section of the Zhedong 49–1 Chishui, Guizhou Canal 49–2 Taining, Fujian 11 Ancient City of Ping Yao 32–8 Hangu Pass in Xin’an 33–21 Sanjiangkou of Ningbo 49–3 Langshan, Hunan 49–4 Danxiashan, Guangdong 12 Classical Gardens of Suzhou 32–9 Shihao Section of Xiaohan 33–22 Old City Section of the Tonghui 49–5 Longhushan, Jiangxi Ancient Road Canal, Beijing 49–6 Guifeng, Jiangxi 13 Old Town of Lijiang 32–10 Suoyang City 33–23 Tongzhou Section of the Tonghui 49–7 Jianglangshan, Zhejiang Canal 14 Summer Palace, an Imperial Garden 32–11 Xuanquanzhi Posthouse 33–24 Sanchakou Section of the 50 Chengjiang Fossil Site in Beijing Northern and Southern Canals in Tianjin 15 Temple of Heaven: An Imperial 32–12 Yumen Pass 33–25 Cangzhou-Hengshui-Dezhou 51 Xinjiang Tianshan Sacrificial Altar in Beijing Section of the Southern Canal 16 Dazu Rock Carvings 32–13 Kizilgaha Beacon Tower 33–26 Linqing Section of the Huitong 52 Hubei Shennongjia Canal 17 Ancient Villages in Southern Anhui – 32–14 Kizil Caves 33–27 Yanggu Section of the Huitong 53 Qinghai Hoh Xil Xidi and Hongcun Canal 18 Imperial Tombs of the Ming and Qing 32–15 Subash Buddhist Ruins 33–28 Nanwang Hydraulic Hub 54 Fanjingshan Dynasties 18–1 Ming Xiaoling Mausoleum 32–16 Bingling Temple Grottoes 33–29 Weishan Section of the Huitong 55 Migratory Bird Sanctuaries along 18–2 Fuling Tomb Canal the Coast of the Yellow Sea-Bohai Gulf of China 18–3 Western Qing Tombs 32–17 Maijishan Cave-Temple 33–30 Taierzhuang Section of the Middle 55–1 Yancheng, Jiangsu 18–4 Eastern Qing Tombs Complex Canal 18–5 Yongling Tomb 32–18 Bin County Grand 33–31 Suqian Section of the Middle 55–2 Chongming Dongtan, 18–6 Xianling Tomb Buddha Temple Grottoes Canal Shanghai 18–7 Zhaoling Tomb 32–19 Giant Wild Goose 34 Tusi Sites 55–3 Yellow River Estuary, 18–8 Ming Tombs Pagoda Dongying, Shandong 19 Longmen Grottoes 32–20 Small Wild Goose Pagoda 34–1 Laosicheng Site 55–4 Nandagang, Cangzhou, Hebei 20 Mount Qingcheng and the 32–21 Xingjiao Temple Pagoda 34–2 Tangya Tusi City Site 55–5 Snake Island-Laotieshan, Dujiangyan Irrigation System Dalian, Liaoning 21 Yungang Grottoes 32–22 Tomb of Zhang Qian 34–3 Hailongtun Site 55–6 Yalu River Estuary, Dandong, Liaoning 22 Capital Cities and Tombs of the 33 The Grand Canal 35 Zuojiang Huashan Rock Art Cultural 56 Badain Jaran Desert - Towers of Ancient Koguryo Kingdom Landscape Sand and Lakes 22–1 Guonei City, Wandu Mountain 33–1 Site of Hanjia Granary No. 36 Kulangsu, a Historic International Mixed Cultural and Natural City 160 Settlement Heritage Sites in China and the Tombs 33–2 Site of Huiluo Granary 37 Archaeological Ruins of Liangzhu City 22–2 Wunü Mountain City 33–3 Zhengzhou Section of the 38 Quanzhou: Emporium of the World in 57 Mount Taishan Tongji Canal Song-Yuan China 23 Historic Centre of Macao 33–4 Nanguan Section of the 39 Cultural Landscape of Old Tea Forests of 58 Mount Huangshan Tongji Canal in Shangqiu the Jingmai Mountain in Pu’er 24 Yin Xu 33–5 Xiayi Section of the Tongji 40 Beijing Central Axis: A Building Ensemble 59 Mount Emei Scenic Area, including Canal in Shangqiu Exhibiting the Ideal Order of the Chinese Leshan Giant Buddha Scenic Area Capital 25 Kaiping Diaolou and Villages 33–6 Site of Liuzi Canal 41 Western Xia Imperial Tombs 60 Mount Wuyi Chapter 35 Accelerated Development of the Cultural Industry We will improve the cultural governance system and production and business mechanisms, implement proactive cultural economic policies, vigorously develop cultural tourism, and harness culture to empower economic and social development. Section 1 Improvement of the Cultural Industry System and Market System We will pursue a strategy of driving development through major cultural industry projects and will expand the supply of high-quality cultural products. Traditional cultural business sectors will be upgraded and transformed, with deeper integration between culture and technology being promoted. Digital and intelligent empowerment and informationalized transformation will be applied to cultural development, fostering new cultural business formats such as digital animation, immersive exhibitions and performances, online broadcasting, short-form videos, and micro-dramas. The healthy development of online literature, games, and audio-visual content will be guided and regulated. The integrated development of publishing will be further promoted, with reforms and innovation across the entire industrial chain. Leading cultural enterprises and brands will be cultivated, and cultural industry parks will be encouraged to develop in a standardized and innovative manner. Efforts will be made to build a unified, open, efficient, well-regulated, and orderly competitive cultural market. Reform of comprehensive law enforcement in the cultural market will be advanced, with approval systems in sectors such as film and television production and online audio-visual services being further streamlined. Section 2 Deepened Integration of Culture and Tourism We will deepen the approach of shaping tourism through culture and showcasing culture through tourism, advancing the goal of building China into a leading tourism nation. The supply of high-quality tourism products will be expanded by tapping into distinctive resources and cultural connotations and promoting integrated development across sectors. Tourism models such as red tourism, rural tourism, wellness tourism, and industrial tourism will be developed according to local conditions. Study-tour 110 programs will be regulated and expanded, and distinctive themed tourism routes and high-quality tourism performances will be cultivated. Tourism public services will be improved, and service quality will also be upgraded across the entire tourism value chain. Standardized management of cultural and tourism projects will be strengthened to prevent resource waste and idle facilities. Market supervision and safety management in tourism will be reinforced to enhance the visitor experience. An inbound tourism promotion plan will be implemented to improve the convenience and internationalization of inbound travel. Chapter 36 Improvement of the Communication and Influence of Chinese Civilization We will accelerate the development of the Chinese discourse and narrative systems, enhance the effectiveness of international communication, expand cultural exchanges and cooperation with other countries, and present a credible, appealing, and respectable image of China. Section 1 Establishment of a More Effective International Communication System We will improve the institutional mechanisms for international communication, with innovation in communication platforms and methods, and expansion of overseas communication networks. A multi-channel, multi-dimensional international communication framework will be developed to strengthen China’s global voice. Globally oriented, market-based, and professional communication entities will be cultivated, with the international communication capacity of mainstream media being enhanced, and an international communication matrix for broadcasting and audio-visual media being established. The global presence of social media platforms will be promoted, enabling Chinese stories and voices to reach international audiences in diversified and targeted ways. Cultural enterprises will be encouraged to expand globally, and high-quality online literature, games, films, television, animation, and exhibitions will be promoted internationally. Key international communication bases and national cultural export bases will also be strengthened. Section 2 Deepened Exchanges and Mutual Learning among Civilizations 111 We will expand international cultural and people-to-people exchanges and cooperation, strengthen dialogue among civilizations at multiple levels, and promote wider global engagement with Chinese culture. Major events such as the Global Civilization Dialogue Conference will be held, and the Liangzhu Forum will continue to be organized. Brand activities such as “Understanding China” and the “Orchid Award” will be carried out, alongside China Culture and Tourism Years (Festivals) and overseas Chinese film festivals and exhibitions. International development assistance in the field of cultural heritage will be expanded, with cooperation on the recovery and repatriation of cultural relics being strengthened. Efforts to promote Chinese culture abroad and support the development of China studies overseas will continue, along with stronger research in regional and country studies. Box 14: Flourishing Development of Socialist Culture 01 Research and Interpretation of the Party’s Innovative Theories Important works such as Selected Readings from the Works of Xi Jinping and Xi Jinping: The Governance of China will continue to be compiled and published. A series of theoretical materials, including thematic overviews, study outlines, and question-and-answer guides on Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, will be prepared and revised. Translation, international publication, and overseas dissemination will also be strengthened. 02 Guidance and Support for the Creation of Outstanding Literary and Artistic Works Key initiatives such as the “Five Ones Project” for the construction of culture and ideology, the National Art Collection Plan, and the Drama Revitalization Action Plan will be further implemented. Projects such as Great Changes in the Mountains and Countryside in the New Era and the New Era Literary Ascent initiative will be advanced. The production of 100 classic documentaries, 100 outstanding animated works, and a series of high-quality film and television programs and micro-dramas will be organized. 03 Construction of Public Cultural Facilities 112 We will complete the new premises of the Central Archives and the National Natural History Museum, as well as the National Repository for Document Preservation, and build the National Art Museum. Service capacity at public libraries, cultural centers, and new types of public cultural spaces will be enhanced, and the Program for Upgrading Small and Medium-Sized Museums will be implemented. 04 Protection, Inheritance, and Utilization of Cultural Heritage We will establish the National Cultural Heritage Science and Technology Innovation Centre and the National Archaeological Research Centre for Xia-Shang Civilization. Integrated conservation efforts will be strengthened for the Hexi Corridor National Cultural Heritage Route, as well as for heritage routes such as the Shu Roads and the Qin Straight Road. The key “Chinese Yingzao (Traditional Construction)” initiative will be implemented. Systematic efforts will be made to advance the conservation, collation, and publication of the Yongle Encyclopedia, the Dunhuang manuscripts, and bamboo and wooden-slip manuscripts. Programs will be carried out to restore major revolutionary historic sites and conserve revolutionary cultural relics held in museum collections. A national big data platform for cultural heritage resources will be developed. Efforts will be made to protect and upgrade World Cultural Heritage sites and a number of historically and culturally significant cities, districts, towns, and villages. 05 In-Depth Integration of Culture and Tourism Drawing on high-quality cultural resources and revitalizing existing facilities, we will strengthen the development of tourism and leisure cities and districts, cultivate a number of high-quality scenic areas and resort destinations, and develop a range of premium tourism routes and products. Part Eleven Improvement of the Population Development Strategy and Promotion of High-Quality Population Development We will refine the population development strategy with a focus on addressing population ageing and a declining birth rate and improve the system to provide full life- 113 cycle population services to all. We will optimize population structure and enhance the quality of population, supporting Chinese modernization through high-quality population development. Chapter 37 Building of a Birth-Friendly Society We will optimize policies and measures to support and encourage childbirth, effectively bring down the costs of childbirth, parenting and education, work to stabilize the size of the newborn population, and promote long-term balanced population development. Section 1 Improvement of Childbirth Support Policies We will uphold the birth-friendly orientation and integrate childbirth support into all economic and social development policies. We will give play to policies such as childcare subsidies and special additional deductions in personal income tax for infant and toddler care and children education. We will also explore the establishment of a dynamic adjustment mechanism for subsidy standards. The coverage of the maternity insurance system will be expanded. The level of medical expense coverage for antenatal examinations will be reasonably improved. Zero out-of-pocket personal payment for in- hospital deliveries within the scope of policy will be essentially achieved, and appropriate pain relief items in labor will be incorporated into the scope of coverage. We will fully implement the parental leave system and encourage employers to implement flexible working arrangements for parents of children under three years of age. We will enhance the protection of fertility, carry out initiatives to provide early pregnancy care, and improve the capacity for the prevention and treatment of reproductive health and birth defects with the goal of bringing down the infant mortality and maternal mortality to below 3.5‰ and 12 per 100,000, respectively. We will promote the regulated and orderly application of assisted reproductive technologies and enhance the medical expense coverage in this regard. Explorative steps will be taken regarding the provision of subsidies for including infants and young children in basic medical insurance. Section 2 Improvement of the Childcare Services System 114 We will accelerate the building of the inclusive childcare services system and expand services supply through multiple channels. We will strengthen the supply of places in public childcare institutions, support kindergartens in developing integrated care and education services, and encourage them to enroll children of two to three years old. We will support social forces in providing diversified and inclusive childcare services and promote multiple models including employer-operated childcare, community-embedded childcare, and family childcare sites. Demonstrations and trials for subsidized childcare services will be deeply carried out, and the price formation mechanism for inclusive childcare services will be improved. Actions will be taken to enhance the quality of childcare services, and efforts will be stepped up to elevate their safety, standardization, and legislation. Section 3 Improvement of Family Development Policies and the Birth-Friendly Environment We will improve the policy system to support family development and advocate marriage and childbearing at appropriate ages, superior birth and child-rearing, and shared parental responsibility between spouses. We will cultivate a new marriage and childbearing culture, promote positive attitudes toward marriage and childbearing, and effectively address bad customs and other issues in weddings and funerals. We will support multi-child families in sending their children to the same school and provide them with preferential housing security and home purchase policies. The child-friendly renovation of public spaces and the provision of maternal and infant facilities will be driven forward. The Law on Family Education Promotion will be implemented. The role of community-based parent schools and similar institutions will be leveraged, and family education guidance services will be strengthened. We will improve systems to provide comprehensive assistance and support for families with special circumstances under the family planning policy. We will enhance the comprehensive management of the sex ratio at birth and improve the population monitoring, forecasting, and early warning systems. Chapter 38 Development of Education that Meets the People’s Expectations We will uphold the priority development of education, fulfil the fundamental task of 115 fostering virtue through education, and deepen comprehensive education reform. We will improve the mechanisms for allocating education resources in line with demographic changes, establish a high-quality education system, and cultivate socialist builders and successors who achieve all-round development in moral, intellectual, physical, aesthetic, and labor education. Section 1 Implementation of the Initiative for Fostering Virtue Through Education in the New-Era We will unswervingly use Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era to shape the minds and cultivate the character of students. We will strengthen the building of the “Great Ideological and Political Course” and improve the curriculum and teaching materials. We will fully implement the new-era university ideological and political course curriculum program, deeply carry out quality education, and promote the healthy growth and well-rounded development of students. We will innovate new forms of practice-based education, develop dedicated social practice courses for university students, and establish a system of national conditions study tours for primary and secondary school students, all serving the purpose of promoting the effective integration between political studies in the classroom and practice in society. We will carry out plans to enhance students’ physical fitness, conduct actions to promote immersive aesthetic education and labor habits at school, and promote mental health education. The student financial assistance system will be improved to cover all levels of schooling. Actions will be taken to promote and improve the quality of the national common language and writing literacy. We will advocate the spirit of educators, enhance teachers’ ethos and professional conduct and benefits, and implement the educational capacity enhancement initiative, to build a high-caliber teaching workforce. We will improve the school-family-society collaboration mechanism in education. We will deepen education assessment reform, establish a differentiated management and assessment mechanism, and guide and regulate the development of private education. Section 2 Expansion and Quality Improvement of Basic Education 116 We will strengthen the dynamic adjustment and surplus-deficit reallocation of basic education resources across school levels and expand the supply of education resources in towns with a net inflow of school-age population. We will promote the high-quality and balanced development of compulsory education. The regional coordinated deployment and rotational exchange of principals and teachers will be strengthened, the small-class teaching will be orderly advanced, and necessary small-scale village schools will be run well. We will promote the high-quality and inclusive development of pre- school education, increase the proportion of places in public kindergartens, and raise the gross enrolment rate in pre-school education to 95%. We will expand the education resources of ordinary high schools, deeply implement the plan of revitalizing county-level ordinary high school, and achieve an 88% high school education completion rate. The scope of free education will be steadily expanded, and the extension of the length of compulsory education will be explored. Reform of the senior high school entrance examination will be advanced in an orderly manner. A higher proportion of high-quality high school enrolment quotas will be allocated, and localities with the necessary conditions will be supported in piloting balanced allocation enrolment. We will coordinate the advancement of the Double Reduction policy and the improvement of education and teaching quality. We will improve the guarantee mechanisms for special education and specialized education. Section 3 Quality Improvement and Capacity Expansion in Higher Education We will advance the differentiated reform and development of higher education institutions by categories such as research-type, application-type, and skill-type institutions. With science, engineering, agriculture, and medicine as the primary focus, we will increase enrolment for quality undergraduate education and graduate cultivation in an orderly manner. The gross enrolment rate of higher education will achieve 65%. The proportion of undergraduate enrolment and the proportion of graduate-level students among all higher education enrollees will be steadily raised. We will vigorously develop professional degree graduate education and raise the proportion of master’s and doctoral degree cultivation in engineering. We will utilize multiple channels to expand 117 quality higher education resources, enhance the building of high-level research universities, and strengthen application-oriented undergraduate universities. Newly added higher education resources will be prioritized for populous provinces and the central and western regions. The timely adjustment of per-student expenditure standards in undergraduate education will be studied, and basic school-running conditions such as dormitories will be continuously improved. We will expand high-level opening-up of education, encourage high-level foreign science and engineering universities to conduct collaborative education programs in China, and enhance the “Studying in China” brand and capacity. We will deeply implement the education digitalization strategy, optimize public services for lifelong learning, and improve the Open University of China system. Section 4 Improvement of the Vocational Schools Capacity We will advance the building of the modern vocational education system and improve the quality and attractiveness of vocational education. We will optimize the vocational education layout that is coordinated with regional development and aligned with the industrial deployment and promote the major settings to meet the needs of the industrial chain and the innovation chain. We will deepen the reform of secondary vocational education, run a small number of excellent secondary vocational schools, build higher vocational schools with distinctive features, and support the integrated development of secondary and higher vocational education. We will build a batch of high-quality undergraduate-level vocational schools and promote the integration of undergraduate-level vocational education with professional degree education. A talent cultivation model of industry-education integration will be implemented. The talent cultivation mechanism combining moral and technical development and integrating work and learning will be improved. Industry-leading enterprises will be encouraged to found or participate in founding vocational schools. Box 15: Building a High-Quality Education System 01 Expansion and Quality Improvement of Basic Education 118 Effective supply of inclusive pre-school education resources will be guaranteed. Full coverage will be achieved in standardized construction of compulsory education schools. With a focus on areas with large permanent resident populations and population inflow, more than 1,000 quality ordinary high schools will be built. The upgrading of science laboratory instruments and equipment in middle schools will be supported. A number of ordinary high schools with a distinctive focus on high-level science education will be built. 02 Resource Expansion in Quality Higher Education We will support the construction of several new campuses for “Double First- Class” universities and increase the undergraduate enrolment of such universities by more than 100,000. We will build approximately 200 high-level application-oriented undergraduate universities and build several quality distinctive disciplines and specializations at qualifying universities. Advanced research institutes will be deployed and built with a focus on the central, western, and northeastern regions. We will implement the initiative to boost our country’s innovation capacity in basic research. With a focus on key fields, we will build several national interdisciplinary centers and national top- tier innovative talent cultivation institutes. Relying on national graduate colleges for elite engineers, we will build and enhance a batch of engineer technology centers and approximately 150 national industry-education integration innovation platforms. 03 Construction of a Modern Vocational Education System We will build approximately 60 high-level higher vocational schools and approximately 160 high-level specialization groups. We will support the construction of quality secondary vocational schools and specializations. A number of quality technician colleges and 100 quality specializations will be built. Focusing on key industries including integrated circuits, AI, and the low- 119 altitude economy, and modern services, 200 industry-education integration practical training bases will be built. Support will be given to a number of high-level vocational colleges in updating advanced practical training equipment. 04 Gap-Filling in Special Education We will advance the standardized construction of special education schools. Fully leveraging existing resources, we will support counties with demand in running special education schools that meet the standards. Populous cities will be supported in building special education schools for children with autism, and the integration of rehabilitation and education will be encouraged. Special education will be incorporated into the compulsory curriculum of normal college students. Chapter 39 Accelerated Building of a Healthy China We will implement a health-first strategy, refine the framework of policies and institutions for promoting people’s health, and deliver better outcomes in patriotic health campaigns. We will drive the transformation from a disease-centered approach to a health-centered approach and provide our people with fair, accessible, systematic, and continuous health services, to improve the people’s health. Section 1 Improvement of the Public Health System We will strengthen the public health capacity, deepen social co-governance, treatment-prevention coordination and integration, and establish and improve the systems for infectious disease prevention and control, emergency response, medical treatment, material security, and regulatory management. We will strengthen the disease control and prevention system. We will enhance the capacity for infectious disease monitoring and early warning and epidemiological investigation. The public health laboratory network will be improved, and a tiered and layered treatment system will be built. We will enhance the prevention and control of major infectious diseases and 120 improve the joint prevention and control mechanism. The categories of vaccines in the national immunization program will be dynamically optimized. The emergency medical rescue and pre-hospital emergency response system will be improved, and blood supply security and emergency capacity will be enhanced. We will enhance mental health and psychiatric services, as well as strengthen the early detection and comprehensive intervention of common mental disorders and psychological problems among key population groups. The prevention and treatment of occupational diseases will be strengthened. The healthy diet action and the national nutrition plan will be implemented, and the healthy weight management action will be continuously carried out. Section 2 Building of a High-Quality and Efficient Medical Services System We will optimize the functional positioning and layout of medical institutions and improve the tiered diagnosis and treatment system. We will promote the expansion and downward extension of quality medical resources and their balanced regional distribution, steadily and orderly advance the building of national medical centers and drive the quality and efficiency improvement of national regional medical centers. The initiative to enhance medical and healthcare foundation will be implemented. The operational support of county-level and primary-level medical institutions will be strengthened. Full coverage of county-level medical community will be essentially achieved, and their integration and coordination will be improved. We will advance the construction of closely integrated urban medical groups, improve the mobile medical service system, and enhance the coverage and satisfaction of family doctor services. The proportion of primary-level medical and healthcare institutions in total outpatient visits will be improved, and the range of medicines available will be rationally increased. The comprehensive prevention and control of chronic diseases will be strengthened. Full-chain services covering prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, and management will be developed. We will improve the early screening, early diagnosis, and early treatment system, and reduce the premature mortality rate from major chronic diseases to below 13%. We will enhance the supply of rehabilitation nursing and palliative care services and implement the initiative to raise the capacity and quality of rehabilitation nursing. 121 The development of the general practitioner, licensed physician, and nursing workforce will be strengthened, and the level of standardized training for resident doctors will be improved. The comprehensive digital and intelligent transformation of public health will be advanced, and the sharing and mutual recognition of laboratory and examination results will be promoted. Section 3 Coordinated Development and Governance Mechanisms for Healthcare, Medical Insurance, and Pharmaceuticals We will deepen the reform of the healthcare system and promote the unification of objectives, alignment of policies, connection of information, and linkage of regulation. The reform of public hospitals will be deepened, guided by the principle of public interest. A dynamic adjustment mechanism for public hospital staffing will be established. We will improve the service-charge mechanism led by medical services, refine the remuneration system, standardize the practice conduct of medical institutions and healthcare personnel, and strengthen the rule of law in the medical and healthcare field. The development of private hospitals will be guided and regulated. We will deepen the reform of medical insurance payment methods, optimize the use of surplus funds, refine the differentiated payment policies for medical institutions at different levels, to lighten the cost burden on insured persons and increase the efficiency of medical insurance fund. The drug price formation mechanism will be improved, and the centralized procurement policies for drugs and medical consumables will be improved. We will optimize the review and approval of innovative drugs and clinically urgently needed drugs, improve the mechanisms for enabling medical insurance to support the high-quality development of innovative drugs and medical devices, refine the innovative drugs catalogue, and encourage commercial insurance to expand the scope of innovative drug payment. Section 4 Inheritance and Innovation of Traditional Chinese Medicine We will drive the revitalization and development of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and promote the integrated development of TCM and Western medicine. We will improve the TCM services system, enhance primary-level TCM service capacity, step up the building of specialized TCM disciplines with distinct advantages, and develop 122 integrated TCM-Western medicine services. Science and technology innovation in TCM will be promoted, and distinctive talent cultivation programs will be implemented. We will strengthen the protection and utilization of TCM resources and the building of production bases for authentic medicinal materials. We will drive the exploration and transformation of TCM preparations and classic prescriptions, elevate the quality of Chinese medicinal materials, and enhance the size and strengthen of the TCM industry. We will reform medical insurance payment methods to align with TCM characteristics. We will promote TCM culture and bring TCM to the world. Section 5 Accelerated Building of a Strong Sports Nation We will actively develop mass sports, extensively carry out national fitness activities, and strengthen the promotion of fitness activities among young people. The proportion of people who regularly participate in physical exercise will reach approximately 40%. We will improve the public services system for national fitness and step up the construction of sports facilities that are conveniently located and easily accessible. We will reform and improve the mechanisms for managing and operating competitive sports, improve the cultivation of reserve talent, and promote the R&D of sports technology and equipment, to enhance our comprehensive strength in competitive sports. We will make high-quality preparations for major international sporting events and host a successful National Games. The revitalization and development of the Three Major Ball Games, namely football, basketball and volleyball, will be advanced, and reform in the football field will be deepened. We will enrich the supply of quality sports products and services, encourage the development of the sporting events economy, and promote the safe and orderly opening of water, air, and mountain areas for outdoor sports. We will continue to consolidate and build upon the outcomes of “300 million people on ice and snow” initiative to drive the high-quality development of the sports industry. Box 16: Building of a Healthy China 01 Enhancement of Public Health Capacity We will improve the comprehensive capacity of the Chinese Center for 123 Disease Control and Prevention, strengthen the construction of national emergency medical rescue bases, and plan and build 10 national regional blood safety centers. 02 Enhancement of Medical Services Quality Focusing on key disease categories, we will step up the construction of high- level hospitals, support 60 provincial-level quality hospitals in improving clinical diagnosis and treatment capability and promote hospitals with ageing ward facilities and equipment to carry out renovation and renewal. 03 Strengthening of Medical and Healthcare Foundation We will support the construction of 1,000 closely integrated county-level medical communities, advance the quality enhancement and upgrading of county-level hospitals and key central township health centers, and strengthen the sharing of resources such as medical imaging, electrocardiography diagnosis, medical laboratory, disinfection supply, drug supply, and pharmaceutical services in counties and districts. 04 Construction of National Medical Centers Focusing on high-level key specializations, we will support the construction of several national medical centers to enhance the capacity for the diagnosis and treatment of difficult and critical diseases, clinical technology leadership, medical research and transformation, and the cultivation of leading talent. 05 Gap-Filling in Medical Services for Key Population Groups We will support qualifying secondary hospitals in providing rehabilitation and nursing services. We will also support the construction of provincial and key city-level mental health service institutions. We will strengthen the building of pediatric service capacity in medical and healthcare institutions. 06 TCM Inheritance and Innovation We will support the construction of national TCM inheritance and innovation 124 centers, flagship hospitals of Chinese-Western medicine integration, and TCM specialized centers with distinctive advantages, to better leverage the distinctive advantages and role of TCM. 07 Construction of Sports Facilities We will carry out the initiatives to expand mass exercise spaces and encourage localities with the necessary conditions to fully explore space resources and build more conveniently accessible sports facilities. With a focus on football, we will support the construction of competitive sports training facilities for young people. We will drive forward the construction of 100 high-quality outdoor sports destinations for ice and snow, mountain activities, and similar pursuits. Chapter 40 Active Response to Population Ageing We will deeply implement the national strategy for actively responding to population ageing, improve the policy mechanisms for the coordinated development of elderly care undertakings and the elderly care industry, and promote a state of affairs in which the elderly are well cared for, make contributions, and enjoy a fulfilling life. Section 1 Improvement of the Urban and Rural Elderly Care Services Network We will coordinate the planning of elderly care service facility, optimize the provision of basic elderly care services, and drive the capacity expansion, quality improvement, and efficiency enhancement of elderly care services. We will deepen the reform and development of elderly care services and advance the category-based reform of elderly care institutions in an orderly manner. We will develop community-embedded elderly care services, cultivate professional, branded, and chain-based elderly care service institutions in community, develop home-based elderly care beds, and promote home renovations to better serve the elderly. Mutual-assistance elderly care services will be developed. We will establish and improve the system for caring the disabled and cognitively impaired elderly people, enhance the provision of nursing-type beds in elderly care institutions, and actively advance the combination of medical treatment and elderly 125 care. Long-term care insurance will be promoted, and the unified elderly ability assessment system will be improved. The professionalization of the elderly care services workforce will be advanced, and the quality and efficiency of comprehensive regulation will be improved. Care and assistance for elderly people of high-age, solitary living and empty-nest households will be strengthened. Section 2 Creation of a Rich and Colorful Life for the Elderly We will integrate active ageing and healthy ageing into the full process of economic and social development, deeply carry out education on national conditions regarding population ageing, and cultivate a social environment of filial piety and respect for the elderly. The silver economy will be vigorously developed. We will enrich the provision of elderly-adapted products and elderly services, cultivate leading enterprises and well- known brands in the silver economy, explore the establishment of a silver product certification system, and improve the silver economy statistics. Elderly human resources will be actively developed. We will prudently implement the gradual raising of the statutory retirement age, refine age restrictions in areas such as employment and social security, and expand diversified job positions suitable for the elderly, as well as deeply carry out the “Silver Age Action.” Efforts will be made to increase the provision of elderly education resources and develop colleges for the elderly to meet their mental and cultural needs. The preferential treatment and rights protection for the elderly will be strengthened. We will step up the renovation of public facilities to better serve the elderly, continue to act on assisting the elderly in adapting to the smart society, and ensure that high-frequency affairs related to the elderly are handled more conveniently and service scenarios are more user-friendly, so that elderly care services are advanced comprehensively. Box 17: Enhancement of Services for the Elderly and Children 01 Quality and Efficiency Improvement of Elderly Care Institutions For public elderly care institutions that were built long before and whose facilities are ageing, we will encourage them to carry out nursing-type bed 126 renovation and facility and equipment renewal. We will promote 2,000 public elderly care institutions to reach Grade 2 or above standards and enhance their facility safety through the approaches such as public-built and privately- operated. For qualifying comprehensive elderly care service institutions, we will promote the application of intelligent service systems, intelligent assistive devices, and smart fire safety and security systems. 02 Enhancement of Community-Based Elderly Care Services We will drive the gap-filling in community-based elderly care facilities, enhance the care service capacity and elderly care service functions, with the goal of increasing the coverage of community-based elderly care institutions and facilities to 70%. 03 Enhancement of Integrated Medical and Elderly Care Capacity We will support qualifying comprehensive hospitals in developing integrated medical and elderly care services, support township health centers with demand in improving facility conditions and enhance the provision of care services for the disabled and cognitively impaired elderly. 04 Expansion and Improvement of Inclusive Childcare Services Taking cities as the unit, we will comprehensively advance the development of inclusive childcare services, drive forward the planning of comprehensive childcare service centers and the renovation and expansion of community- based inclusive childcare facilities and integrated care and education institutions, and achieve full coverage of comprehensive childcare service centers at the prefecture and municipal level. 05 Enhancement of Childbirth Medical Services We will upgrade and renovate 10 national regional reproductive health centers and ensure that each province has built at least one high-level maternal and child health institution. We will drive maternity service institutions to improve service standards. 127 Part Twelve Safeguarding and Improvement of People’s Livelihoods and Promotion of Common Prosperity We will uphold the safeguarding and improvement of people’s livelihoods under the progress of high-quality development. In line with the principle of doing everything within our means, we will improve the basic public services system and implement more equitable, universally beneficial, targeted, and effective social policies. We will ensure that public services are inclusive, meet essential needs, and provide a cushion for those most in need, and work to resolve the pressing difficulties and problems that concern the people most. Channels for social mobility will remain unimpeded, and living standards will be further improved. Chapter 41 Promotion of High-Quality and Full Employment We will push forward with the employment-first strategy, combine capacity expansion and quality improvement, strengthen related support mechanisms, and make our development model more employment-friendly. Section 1 Strengthening of the Employment-First Policy We will make high-quality and full employment a priority objective of economic and social development and improve the evaluation mechanism for the employment impact of major policies, major projects, and major productive capacity deployments. We will foster greater synergy between industry and employment, take actions to stabilize jobs, expand capacity, and improve quality. Stronger policy support will be provided to industries and enterprises that absorb large numbers of workers, such as foreign trade, construction, accommodation, and catering. The employment potential will be fully tapped in the services sector and emerging fields, and the healthy development of flexible employment and new forms of employment will be promoted. We will stabilize and expand employment among key groups, including university graduates, rural migrant workers, and ex-service members. We will extend assistance to disadvantaged groups, promote re-employment of unemployed people, and ensure at least one member of each zero-employment household is employed. We will ramp up support for 128 entrepreneurship and help business startups create more jobs. We will respond in a holistic way to the effects of external changes and emerging technologies such as AI. An evaluation system for high-quality and full employment will be established. Section 2 Vocational Skills Training on a Large Scale We will improve the mechanism for matching the supply of human resource with demand, refine the system of lifelong vocational skills training, and work to address structural employment challenges. Led by market-oriented training and with industry and enterprise training as the primary vehicle, we will fully leverage the advantageous role of colleges and social training institutions to expand the supply of high-quality training. We will coordinate the use of employment assistance funds and unemployment insurance funds to support vocational skills training, and guide enterprises to fully withdraw and use employee education funds as required. We will see that training subsidies are directly provided to enterprises and trainees and establish a system for unemployed key groups to apply for training subsidies. The occupational classification, occupational standards, and skilled talent assessment systems will be improved. The “New Eight-Level” vocational skills system will be deeply implemented, and a national qualification framework will be built. We will hold a successful WorldSkills Competition. Section 3 Enhancement of Employment Services and Protection of Workers’ Rights and Interests We will improve the employment support and public services system and cultivate a fair and orderly employment environment. We will refine labor standards and the mechanisms for labor relation consultation and mediation and improve the system for protecting the rights and interests of workers in flexible employment and new forms of employment. We will drive platform enterprises to formulate labor rules fairly and to employ workers in compliance with law and regulations, so as to build harmonious labor relations. Digitalization and intelligentization will be accelerated to better manage the archives of mobile workforce. Guidance on employment and talent philosophy will be strengthened. We will improve the legal and regulatory system for labor and employment, and enhance the efficiency of labor dispute mediation and arbitration. We will improve 129 the labor security inspection system, see that enterprises implement the working hour system in accordance with law, and effectively address employment discrimination, arrears of wages or social insurance contributions, and unlawful dismissals. The employment and unemployment statistical monitoring and early warning system will be optimized, and the mechanism for preventing and defusing large-scale unemployment risks will be improved. Box 18 Employment Promotion and Service Enhancement 01 Employment Support for Key Groups We will implement plans to support the employment of university graduates and other young people and improve the full-chain support system encompassing policy incentives, job referral, career guidance, and internships. We will enhance coordination between labor inflow and outflow regions and build labor service brands with distinctive features. We will coordinate the use of public welfare posts to provide an employment safety net for disadvantaged groups. 02 “Skills Illuminate the Future” Training Action Focusing on advanced manufacturing, the digital economy, daily services, and other fields, we will support key groups in participating in employment skills training. We will establish national-level high-skilled talent training bases and skills masters’ studios and support the building of a number of public practical training bases. Enterprises will be encouraged to carry out new-type apprenticeship training and senior technician training. 03 Improvement of Employment Public Services Quality We will strengthen “doorstep” employment services and improve the accessibility of public employment services. We will improve the national employment information resource database and the smart employment service platform to strengthen employment information services, promote precise matching of employment supply with demand, and enhance the big 130 data monitoring of employment. A survey mechanism will be built for better respond to the AI impact on employment, and efforts will be step up to support job stabilization, job-transfer training, and employment support. 04 Effective Job Creation by Entrepreneurship We will strengthen the coordinated support for entrepreneurship training, entrepreneurship services, entrepreneurship incubation, and entrepreneurship activities. We will advance the “technology outcomes + entrepreneurship,” “industrial development + entrepreneurship,” “vocational skills + entrepreneurship,” and “people’s livelihood needs + entrepreneurship” models and build high-quality entrepreneurship incubation platforms. Chapter 42 Improvement of the Income Distribution System We will keep distribution according to work as the mainstay with multiple forms of distribution existing alongside it. We will improve the coordinated institutional system of primary distribution, redistribution, and tertiary distribution, raise the proportion of personal income in the distribution of national income, and give more weight to work remuneration in primary distribution. Section 1 Optimization of the Primary Distribution We will improve the primary distribution mechanism whereby the contributions of production factors are determined by the market and rewarded accordingly, which will allow higher incomes for those who work hard, who possess highly valued skills, and who excel at innovation. We will also improve the mechanisms for determining wages, keeping reasonable wage growth, and guaranteeing full payment. We will implement a system for collective wage bargaining, refine the mechanism for minimum wage adjustment, and strengthen macro-level guidance for enterprises on wage distribution. We will deepen the reform of the wage determination mechanism in state-owned enterprises, refine the wage, allowance and subsidy systems for government organs and public institutions, and strengthen the tilting of wage distribution toward primary-level 131 front-line workers and workers in arduous areas. We will improve the enterprise wage survey and information release system. We will leverage multiple channels to increase the property income of both urban and rural residents, improve the incentive and constraint mechanism of dividends issued by listed companies, enrich financial products and services to meet residents’ wealth management needs, and raise the farmers’ share in the value appreciation of agricultural land. We will strengthen the distribution policies to increase the value of knowledge, allowing more qualified state-owned enterprises to provide diverse forms of medium-to-long-term incentives for their research personnel specialized in innovation and creation, and to accelerate the building of a skills-oriented remuneration distribution system. Section 2 Intensified Regulation of Income Distribution We will strengthen the redistribution regulation by means of taxation, social security, and transfer payments to optimize the income distribution structure. The intensity and precision of tax regulation will be increased, the services and regulatory system for natural persons’ taxes and fees will be improved, and the unified taxation of labor income will be implemented. The policy of special additional deductions will be given full play, and personal income tax deduction efforts will be increased. The regulatory mechanism for capital gains taxation will be explored and improved, and tax regulation and supervision of high-income earners will be strengthened. We will strengthen mutual assistance and risk-pooling function of social security and progressively narrow the gaps in financing and benefit levels between different systems and different regions. We will optimize the functional positioning of transfer payments and strengthen the regulatory function of general transfer payments in narrowing the gap in fiscal capacity between regions. The disaster relief and poverty relief system will be improved. The role of tertiary distribution will be better leveraged to promote and regulate the development of public welfare and philanthropy, with efforts taken to explore effective forms of charitable giving. Section 3 Steady Expansion of the Middle-Income Group We will put into effect an income growth plan for both urban and rural residents, effectively increase the earnings of low-income people, enlarge the middle-income 132 group, and drive the formation of an olive-shaped distribution structure. Focusing on key groups, we will implement targeted income-increase policies. The job matching for university graduates will be improved, the dual improvement of wages and skills for technical workers will be driven forward, and the wage payment guarantee system for rural migrant workers will be fully implemented. Multiple measures will be adopted to promote the stable operation of small and micro enterprise owners and self-employed businesses. High-caliber farmers and rural entrepreneurial leaders will be actively cultivated to facilitate the improvement of income-earning and wealth-building capacity. We will keep income distribution and the means of wealth accumulation well-regulated and support the acquirement of wealth through hard work, innovation, and lawful activities. We will encourage those are already well-off to assist others in increasing wealth and promote common prosperity. Excessively high incomes will be reasonably regulated, and illegal incomes will be banned. Chapter 43 Improvement of the Social Security System With a focus on strengthening protection for key groups and enhancing the sustainability of the system, we will improve a multi-level, sustainable social security system that covers all citizens, coordinates urban and rural areas, and is fair, uniform, safe and standardized. Section 1 Steady Improvement for Social Security We will implement an action to drive high-quality participation and continuously expand social insurance coverage. We will move faster to develop a multi-level, multi- pillar pension insurance system, and improve the mechanisms for setting and adjusting benefits. The basic pension for urban and rural residents will be gradually raised, and the basic pensions for retirees will be tilted toward groups with lower benefit levels. The coverage of enterprise annuities will be expanded. Individual pension policies will be improved, and commercial pension insurance will be vigorously developed. We will refine the multi-level medical security system, improve settlement arrangements for medical care accessed away from one’s place of registration, and give full play to commercial medical insurance as a supplementary protection. We will raise the share of insurance 133 participation rate by people in flexible employment, rural migrant employment, and new forms of employment. Contribution bases will be reasonably determined, and the contribution responsibilities of employers and platform enterprises will be clarified. The coverage will be expanded for unemployment, work-related injury, and other social insurance, and the occupational injury protection system will be established and improved. We will improve the policies for transferring and continuation of social security accounts and boost the efficiency for transferring and continuation of pension insurance accounts. The nationally unified social security public service platform and handling, management, and service arrangements will be optimized. Section 2 Enhancement of the Sustainability of the Social Insurance System We will improve the social insurance actuarial system and the mechanisms for guaranteeing long-term contributions to social security funds, conducting overall management and regulations of funds, maintaining and increasing their value, and ensuring their safety. We will optimize and strengthen the social security strategic reserve funds and continue to transfer a portion of state-owned capital to replenish social security funds. We will step up incentives for insurance participation and contribution, encourage collective economic organizations and other bodies with necessary conditions to subsidize urban and rural residents’ insurance contributions, and reasonably raise the standard of government subsidies for urban and rural residents’ basic medical insurance. The national pooling system for basic pension insurance will be improved and implemented. Provincial-level pooling for basic medical insurance will be essentially achieved, and provincial-level pooling for unemployment and work-related injury insurance will be consolidated. We will refine policies and regulatory systems for investment with social security funds, enhance information disclosure and performance evaluation, and strengthen oversight of medical insurance funds. Section 3 Improvement of the Social Assistance System We will improve the tiered, categorized, and urban-rural coordinated social assistance system. We will refine the basic livelihood assistance system and the targeted assistance system, dynamically adjust social assistance standards, and strengthen 134 assistance for households on the margins of the minimum living guarantee and for households facing hardship due to rigid expenditures. We will actively develop services- based social assistance, and further coordinate and align all types of social assistance policies. We will improve the temporary assistance system and fully advance the direct delivery of assistance at the location where urgent difficulties arise. We will refine the mechanism for assessment and monitoring of assistance recipients, enhance the effective alignment of the assistance system with other policies, and stimulate assistance recipients to proactively rise to resolve difficulties. Chapter 44 High-Quality Development of the Real Estate Sector We will work faster to cultivate a new development model for the real estate sector and improve the housing system that is supplied by multiple entities, guaranteed through multiple channels, and suitable for both rental and purchase, for achieving a higher-level housing for all. Section 1 Improvement of the Housing Security System We will optimize the supply of subsidized housing, strengthen housing security for urban low-income, housing-disadvantaged households, and better meet the basic housing needs of wage-earning groups that face housing difficulties and have modest incomes. We will progressively resolve the phased housing difficulties of new urban residents, young people, and other groups. We will strengthen full-process management of subsidized housing, and improve the management mechanisms for application, queuing, allocation, use, and exit. We will take explorative measures to promote the orderly conversion and coordinated use of rental-type and sale-type subsidized housing sources. We will deepen the reform of the housing provident fund system, expand its application scope, and support the participation of people in flexible employment. Section 2 Stable and Healthy Development of the Real Estate Market We will improve the basic systems for commercial housing development, financing, and sales. We will promote the project company model in real estate development and the lead bank model in real estate financing. We will support the reasonable real estate 135 financing needs and effectively advance the orderly sales of completed houses. We will rationally arrange the scale and layout of real estate land supply and promote the coordination of land supply with existing housing stock and population changes. Governments will be fully empowered with the autonomous authority to regulate the real estate market. We will promote categorized handling of land already supplied but not yet developed and of projects under construction, and the activation and utilization of existing commercial housing and idle commercial and office premises. City-specific policies will be adopted to increase supply to meet people’s needs for better housing. We will build more “quality houses” that are safe, comfortable, co-friendly, and smart and carry out projects to improve housing quality and initiatives to improve property services. We will regulate and develop the housing rental market, and foster market- oriented, professional rental enterprises. A full lifecycle safety management system will be established for housing. Chapter 45 Steady Advancement of the Equalization of Basic Public Services We will enhance the equilibrium and accessibility of basic public services and drive more visible and substantive progress in the equalization of basic public services. Section 1 Institutional Systems for the Equalization of Basic Public Services We will formulate and implement plans and policies to drive the equalization of basic public services and work faster to ensure equal access to basic public services for the permanent resident population. We will advance the balanced development of urban and rural basic public services at the county level and progressively narrow the gap in basic public service resources between regions. Guided by equal opportunity and broadly equivalent outcomes, we will establish assessment standards for equitable access to basic public services, refine the criteria by field, and explore the evaluations of equalization. The scope and content of basic public services will be improved, with a focus on the fields of childcare, education, employment, healthcare, elderly care, housing, and assistance for the vulnerable. Service items will be introduced as appropriate to address people’s urgent needs, national standards will be dynamically adjusted, and regional standards will be better coordinated. We will channel more public 136 services toward the community level, rural areas, remote regions, and people in need. We will better coordinate the supply of basic public services at the county level and improve long-term mechanisms to guarantee the inputs for their provision. Section 2 Comprehensive Advancement of Basic Public Services Accessibility at the Place of Permanent Residence We will improve the mechanisms for allocating public resources in line with the size of the permanent resident population. In cities with concentrated population inflows, we will regulate the implementation of tiered supply of scarce public services based primarily on the duration of employment and residence and progressively reduce the number of tiers and service differentials. We will implement the policy for participation in urban and rural residents’ basic medical insurance using a residence permit. Non- household-registered permanent residents will be progressively incorporated into the scope of child welfare, social assistance, and other services at their place of permanent residence. We will comprehensively deepen the reform of public institutions and optimize the structure of public institutions in the public services domain. We will consolidate and refine the allocation mechanism of fiscal transfer payment to fully consider the number of permanent resident service recipients, service costs, and other factors. Chapter 46 Safeguarding of Development Rights and Interests for All Groups We will improve the care services and systems, cultivate a social environment that effectively safeguards the development rights and interests of women, minors, young people, and persons with disabilities, and improve the service and support for ex-service members. Section 1 Promotion of Gender Equality and the All-Round Development of Women We will uphold gender equality as a fundamental state policy and guarantee women’s right to equal participation in economic and social development, equal exercise of democratic rights, and equal enjoyment of the fruits of reform and development in accordance with law. We will improve the maternal and child health service system, strengthen comprehensive prevention and treatment of breast cancer and cervical 137 cancer, and fully implement the free vaccination of age-eligible girls against human papillomavirus (HPV) under the national immunization program. Women’s equal rights to education and employment will be guaranteed. Rural women’s rights as members of collective economic organizations and their land contract and management rights will be protected in accordance with law. Women’s participation in community-level governance will be supported. We will continue to prevent and stop domestic violence, severely crack down on unlawful and criminal conduct infringing upon women’s rights. Section 2 Enhancement of Care and Protection for Minors We will uphold the priority development of children and effectively safeguard children’s rights to survival, development, protection, and participation. Early screening and early intervention for myopia, overweight and obesity, autism, and other conditions in children will be advanced. Pediatric healthcare services will be elevated, and the range of pediatric medicines will be enriched. We will strengthen care services for children in difficulties, promote categorized assistance for mobile children and left-behind children, and effectively improve their welfare and security. Early childhood development services will be improved. We will establish and implement action plans to prevent and control harms done on children, step up prevention and management of unlawful and criminal conduct by minors, and effectively prevent and address school bulling. We will strengthen cyber protection of minors and expand the space for online education. We will promote child-friendly development and foster a social environment of care and love for the next generation. Section 3 Support for Youth Development We will improve plans and policies for promoting youth development, and create favorable conditions for young people to grow, develop, and make achievements. We will strengthen the ideological and political guidance for young people to shape correct values. We will carry out initiatives to drive new-era Chinese youth to make contributions to science and technology innovation, rural revitalization, and other fields. We will support young people in striving to be pioneers and the main force in work across all fields and domains. Efforts will be made to help young people resolve practical 138 difficulties in study and work, innovation and entrepreneurship, marriage and childbirth, housing security, and social integration. Mechanisms will be improved to enable young people to express their rights and interests and ensure their demands are responded. Channels will be expanded for youth participation in social governance in an orderly manner. Section 4 Support and Guarantee for Ex-service Members We will deepen the reform of the management and support system for ex-service members, and improve the organizational management, work operation, and policy and institutional systems. We will improve mechanisms for determining and adjusting preferential treatment entitlements, enhance coordinated management of preferential treatment items, and refine assistance and legal services for ex-service members. The management reform of hospitals with preferential treatment and state-run care homes for ex-service members will be deepened, and the preferential treatment, healthcare, and elderly care system will be improved. We will advance high-quality placement and employment of ex-service members, improve placement arrangements, and enhance policy support and service guidance. We will establish the system of honors, incentives, commendations, and awards for ex-service members. The establishment of model cities and counties in promoting mutual support between the military and the government and between the military and the people will be strengthened and improved. The spirit of heroes and martyrs will be vigorously promoted. Section 5 Enhancement of Security and Development Capacity for People with Disabilities We will improve the social security system and care services system for people with disabilities and promote the all-round development of undertakings for people with disabilities. Safety net protection for people with severe disabilities, multiple disabilities, and households with multiple disabled members will be strengthened. We will improve the living allowance system for people with disabilities in difficulties, the nursing care allowance system for people with severe disabilities, and the dynamic adjustment mechanism for allowance standards. We will strengthen rehabilitation assistance for 139 children with disabilities and improve the subsidy system of assistive devices. We will strengthen community and family support for people with disabilities, enhance daycare and nursing services for people with severe disabilities, and develop community-based rehabilitation for people with mental disorders. We will step up employment assistance for people with disabilities, and improve the mechanisms for promoting employment by quota, concentrated employment, and self-employment. Culture and sports development for people with disabilities will be promoted. Science and technology assistance for people with disabilities will be deeply advanced, and accessibility of public facilities, information communication, and social services will be strengthened. Box 19: Enhancement of Social Care Services 01 Care for Children in Difficulties and Left-Behind Children We will enhance basic living security for children in difficulties and improve services security for medical rehabilitation, basic public education, mental health care, personal safety, and legal guardianship. We will expand the service functions of children’s welfare institutions to provide nursing, rehabilitation, and special education services for the broader public and broaden the coverage of rescue and protection services for minors. Care activities for left-behind children, dispersed orphans, and de facto unparented children will be regularly carried out. 02 Preferential Treatment and Commendation for Ex-service Members and Martyrs We will improve the service capacity of hospitals with preferential treatment and state-run care homes for ex-service members, and other institutions. We will renovate martyrs’ memorial facilities and elevate the standard of display and stewardship. Searches and protective recovery of the remains of missing martyrs and the tracing of the families of martyrs will continue to be conducted. 03 Services for People with Disabilities 140 We will build a number of specialized service facilities for the rehabilitation, daycare and nursing, and vocational education for people with disabilities. We will enhance the specialized service capacity of rehabilitation institutions and run excellent rehabilitation colleges. Eligible elderly care institutions will be encouraged to provide special care services for “elderly parent + disabled child” families. Accessible renovation of the homes of people with severe disabilities in difficult circumstances will be supported. 04 Public-Interest Funeral Services We will establish and improve the basic funeral services system and strengthen comprehensive regulation of the funeral industry. A number of funeral homes will be built and renovated, and ageing cremation equipment will be updated. A number of public-interest, land-saving, and eco-friendly burial facilities will be built, and columbarium burial, tree burial, sea burial, and other approaches will be promoted based on local conditions. Part Thirteen Accelerated Comprehensive Green Transition of Economic and Social Development for Building a Beautiful China We will firmly establish and practice the concept that lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets, using carbon peaking and carbon neutrality as the primary driver and improvement of the ecological civilization institutional system as the guarantee. Through coordinated efforts to cut carbon emissions, reduce pollution, expand green development, and pursue economic growth, ecological and environmental quality will be improved. A solid ecological security barrier will be built, and the momentum for green development will be strengthened. Chapter 47 Active and Prudent Advancement Towards Carbon Peaking We will coordinate development and emissions reduction to solidly carry out carbon peaking actions. By accelerating the adjustment and optimization of the industrial 141 structure, energy structure, transport structure, and other structures, the timely achievement of the carbon peaking target will be ensured. Section 1 Comprehensive Implementation of the Dual-Control System for Total Carbon Emissions and Carbon Intensity We will adhere to a combination of policy guidance and market incentives, and steadily implement the policy frameworks for local carbon performance assessment, industry-level carbon management and control, enterprise carbon management, project carbon evaluation, and product carbon footprint management. A comprehensive assessment and evaluation system for carbon peaking and carbon neutrality will be established. The dual-control targets for carbon emissions will be scientifically and equitably disaggregated, and accountability for meeting carbon emission targets will be firmly established. An industry-level carbon emission management and control mechanism will be established. Requirements for carbon emission management in key industries and sectors will be clarified, and the dual control of production capacity governance and carbon emissions will be coordinated and advanced. The management system for major energy-consuming and carbon-emitting entities will be improved. Energy conservation reviews and carbon emission assessments for fixed asset investment projects will be strengthened, and equal-quantity or reduced-quantity carbon emission replacement will be required for newly built and expanded or renovated high- energy-consumption and high-emission industrial projects. Accounting rules and standards for product carbon footprints will be formulated. Carbon emission quota standards for key products will be published, and a product carbon labelling and certification system will be established. The carbon emission statistical accounting system and dynamic monitoring and early warning mechanism will be improved, and the national greenhouse gas inventory will be compiled on a regular basis. The coverage of the national carbon emission trading market will be expanded, and the development of the greenhouse gas voluntary emission reduction trading market will be accelerated. Section 2 Advancement of Energy Conservation and Carbon Reduction in Key Sectors We will vigorously advance energy conservation and carbon reduction 142 transformation, as well as coal control and coal reduction, and will accelerate the replacement of incremental electricity demand with new clean energy generation. Coal and oil consumption will be driven towards their respective peaks, and energy consumption per unit of GDP will be reduced by approximately 10%. High-energy- consumption and high-emission projects will be managed and controlled in a firm and effective manner. The development and application of green and low-carbon technologies and equipment will be accelerated. Eligible high-energy-load industries will be guided in an orderly manner to relocate to regions with abundant renewable energy resources, and zero-carbon factories and industrial parks will be built. Energy conservation and carbon reduction retrofits of existing buildings and municipal facilities will be strengthened. The large-scale development of ultra-low-energy-consumption buildings and prefabricated buildings will be promoted, and actions to improve cooling energy efficiency and advance green lighting will be implemented. The green and low- carbon transformation of heating systems will be accelerated. The utilization of waste heat resources and the supply of heat from non-fossil energy sources will be developed according to local conditions, and heat metering retrofits and heat-based billing will be advanced in an orderly manner. Low-carbon substitution of transportation power sources will be promoted, with accelerated electrification of freight and public transport and use of green-fuel vessels and vehicles, and increased share of bulk cargo transported by rail and waterway, as well as of new energy vehicles in transport. Energy utilization efficiency in emerging sectors, such as computing infrastructure and 5G base stations, will be improved. The energy efficiency diagnosis mechanism for key sectors will be improved, and the energy efficiency labelling system and the energy efficiency “leader” program will be given further impetus. The development of pioneer zones for green, low-carbon, and high-quality development will be further advanced. Section 3 Enhanced Capacity to Respond to Global Climate Change We will place equal emphasis on mitigation and adaptation, comprehensively control greenhouse gas emissions, and actively address the adverse impacts and risks of climate change. The monitoring and control of non-CO₂ greenhouse gases will be 143 strengthened. Ecosystem carbon sink capacity will be enhanced, and the carbon sink monitoring and accounting system will be improved. The system for climate change adaptation work will be improved. Risk impact assessments of climate change on key vulnerable sectors and regions will be strengthened, and the capacity to respond to climate change, and in particular, to extreme weather events, will be enhanced. We will actively participate in and lead global climate governance, uphold the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities, give full effect to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Paris Agreement, and deepen South- South cooperation on climate change. Box 20: Carbon Peaking and Carbon Neutrality 01 Energy Conservation and Carbon Reduction in Key Industries and Fields The intensity of energy conservation and carbon reduction transformation in key industries and sectors, including thermal power, steel, non-ferrous metals, petrochemicals, chemicals, and building materials, will be increased. Energy- efficient and low-carbon technologies will be widely promoted. Energy savings of more than 150 million tons of standard coal equivalent will be achieved, and energy consumption per unit of building floor area of public institutions will be reduced by 5%. 02 Clean Substitution of Coal Consumption A number of demonstration projects will be built for the low-carbon transformation of coal-fired generating units through biomass co-firing, green ammonia co-firing, and similar approaches. Low-carbon transformation projects for coal chemicals will be comprehensively implemented. The clean substitution of coal-fired boilers and industrial kilns in the food, textile, paper-making, and similar industries will be advanced, with annual coal consumption substitution targeted to reach 30 million tons per year. 03 Zero-Carbon Park and Zero-Carbon Transport Corridor Construction The model of manufacturing green products with green energy will be developed, direct green electricity supply will be expanded according to local conditions, and 144 approximately 100 national-level zero-carbon industrial parks will be built. Focusing on transport corridors with high freight volumes, facilities for electric charging and battery swapping, hydrogen-ammonia-methanol refueling, and integrated photovoltaic-storage systems will be built, along with a number of zero-carbon transport corridor demonstration road sections and flight segments. 04 Circular Economy Contributing to Carbon Reduction The system for fine-grained waste recycling and circulation, the processing and utilization of recycled resources, and the promotion and application of high-quality recycled materials will be improved. The high-value and standardised utilisation of waste electrical and electronic products, spent power batteries, decommissioned wind power and photovoltaic equipment, end-of-life vehicles, and similar products will be improved, and the output rate of major resources will be raised by approximately 16%. 05 Non-CO₂ Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction In the fields of coal mining, crop cultivation and animal husbandry, waste treatment, and chemical product manufacturing, methane, nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbon, and other non-CO₂ greenhouse gas management and control projects will be implemented, and the formation of an emission reduction capacity of 30 million tonnes of CO₂ equivalent will be driven forward. 06 Foundational Capacity Building for Carbon Peaking and Carbon Neutrality A national comprehensive carbon emission data management system, a national greenhouse gas emission factor database, and national carbon measurement laboratories will be built. Technological innovation and engineering application in CO₂ capture and biological absorption will be strengthened, and the construction of carbon capture, utilisation, and storage demonstration projects will be advanced. Chapter 48 Continuous Improvement of Environmental Quality We will uphold the principle of environmental protection for the benefit of the people, give full effect to targeted, science-based, and law-based pollution control, and place greater emphasis on governance at source. The coordination of pollution reduction with 145 carbon reduction, the coordinated control of multiple pollutants, and coordinated regional governance will be strengthened, and the transformation of environmental quality improvement from quantitative to qualitative change will be accelerated. Section 1 The Battle to Defend Blue Skies, Clear Waters, and Clean Soil We will continue to deepen the pollution prevention and control campaign, and drive the quality of the atmospheric, water, and soil environment to higher standards. With the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and its surroundings, the Yangtze River Delta, the Fenwei Plain, and other key regions as the primary focus, control of fine particulate matter (PM2.5) will be strengthened. Ultra-low emission retrofits in key industries will be further advanced. Source substitution and full-process governance of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) will be promoted. The next phase of motor vehicle emission standards and fuel quality standards will be formulated. The performance-tiered management system for the atmospheric environment will be deepened. Nitrogen oxide and VOC emissions will each be reduced by more than 8%, and the occurrence of heavily polluted weather will be further reduced. Air pollution prevention and control in the middle reaches of the Yangtze River, the Chengdu-Chongqing area, and other regions will be strengthened. The management of cooking fume emissions from restaurants, malodorous and offensive-odor emissions, and environmental noise pollution will be strengthened. The governance of water resources, the water environment, and water ecosystems will be coordinated. With a focus on resolving prominent issues across entire river basins and across provincial boundaries, systematic governance and ecological protection of important rivers, lakes, and reservoirs will be strengthened. The investigation and remediation of pollutant discharge outlets into rivers and the sea in key river basins and coastal areas will be largely completed. Chemical oxygen demand and total phosphorus emissions will each be reduced by 6%. The outcomes of urban black-odor water body management will be consolidated, with black- odor water bodies in counties and townships being largely eliminated. Source-level control of soil pollution will be strengthened, and the safe utilization of contaminated agricultural land and construction land will be advanced. 146 Section 2 Strengthened Environmental Risk Prevention and Control The management and control of ecological and environmental risks will be normalized to effectively safeguard public health and safety. A comprehensive solid waste management action will be implemented, with source volume reduction, process management and control, end-of-process utilization, and full-chain harmless treatment being actively advanced, in order to improve the standardized management and control of solid waste disposal. Full-process supervision of hazardous waste will be strengthened, with a focus on the management and control of heavy metal pollution risks, and investigation and remediation of historical legacy hazards from waste residue, mines, and tailings ponds will be carried out. Efforts to address emerging pollutants will be further advanced, and a coordinated governance and risk management system for persistent organic pollutants, endocrine-disrupting substances, antibiotics, microplastics, and similar substances will be established. High-standard design, high- quality construction, and high-level operation of nuclear facilities will be promoted. Safety regulations for first-of-a-kind and new-type reactors will be deepened. The decommissioning and management of ageing nuclear facilities and the disposal of radioactive waste will be strengthened, and the capacity for radiation environment monitoring will be improved. The cross-regional and cross-departmental linked emergency response system for sudden environmental incidents will be improved. Ecological and environmental health risk assessments will be conducted in key regions. Section 3 Improvement of the Modern Environmental Governance System The ecological and environmental code will take effect. The accountability system, the regulatory system, and the system of laws, regulations, and standards will be improved to enhance the effectiveness of environmental governance. The ecological and environmental protection responsibilities of Party committees and governments at all levels, and of leading officials, will be fulfilled. Central and provincial ecological and environmental protection inspections will be further advanced to improve the support capacity for inspections and the modernization of monitoring and regulatory capacity. National ecological civilization pilot zones will be continuously developed. Assessments 147 of the progress of Beautiful China construction will be conducted, with Beautiful China pioneer zones being built. Ecological and environmental zoning management and control will be further advanced. Alignment with national territorial spatial planning will be strengthened to optimize industrial layout in a coordinated manner. The implementation of the fixed-source pollution regulatory system, centered on the pollutant discharge permit system, will be accelerated. Efforts will be made to update pollutant discharge standards and environmental quality standards, and establish an environmental credit regulatory system. Box 21: Environmental Quality Improvement 01 Air Pollution Prevention and Control Enhancement Ultra-low emission retrofits will be completed for 500 million tons of cement clinker production capacity and 100 million tons of coking production capacity. The replacement of China IV and below trucks and China II and below construction machinery will be accelerated, and the scrapping and renewal of ageing commercial vessels will be promoted. With a focus on the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region and its surroundings, industrial coal-fired boilers with a capacity of 65 steam tons per hour and below will be progressively phased out. The consolidation and phase-out of sintered brick production lines with an annual capacity below 60 million standard bricks will be promoted. Full-load denitrification retrofits of coal-fired power plants will be completed, and comprehensive air pollution control for industrial clusters will be carried out. 02 Coordinated Governance of Water Resources, Water Environment, and Water Ecology Focusing on the Yangtze River, Yellow River, Pearl River, Huai River, Songhua River, and other major river basins, remediation of monitoring cross-sections with excessive total phosphorus concentrations and comprehensive water ecology management will be carried out. Total nitrogen management and 148 control for nationally monitored rivers flowing into the sea will be implemented, and the standardized development of drinking water source areas will be advanced. The ecological protection and governance of 30 key lakes and reservoirs, including Taihu Lake, the Danjiangkou Reservoir area, Chaohu Lake, Erhai Lake, Baiyangdian Lake, Wuliangsu Lake, and Honghu Lake will be carried out in a coordinated manner, and the protection and management of the Grand Canal will be strengthened. The construction and renovation of urban domestic sewage collection and treatment facilities will be promoted. Reclaimed water utilization projects for the Beijing-Tianjin- Hebei region and the Yellow River Basin will be implemented. 03 Source-Level Prevention and Control and Remediation of Soil Pollution Focusing on the petrochemical and chemical industries, soil pollution source- level prevention and control projects will be implemented. The tracing and remediation of heavy metal contamination of agricultural land in key counties will be carried out. A special soil pollution remediation project will be implemented for chemical plant relocation sites within one kilometer of the Yangtze River. 04 Comprehensive Solid Waste Management The investigation and management of environmental risk hazards from phosphogypsum storage sites in the Yangtze River Basin will be advanced. Construction waste collection, temporary storage, resource utilization, and disposal facilities will be built and upgraded. Urban domestic waste classified collection and transfer facilities will be upgraded, and a waste clearance and transportation capacity of 750,000 tons per day will be achieved. 05 Priority Management and Control of Hazardous Waste The renovation and upgrading of hazardous waste landfills that do not meet standards will be promoted, and the comprehensive closure and remediation of decommissioned hazardous waste landfills will be carried out. Systematic 149 management of tailings pond pollution in the Danjiangkou Reservoir area and its upstream regions will be carried out, and a number of environmental safety hazard remediation projects for historically problematic heavy metal mining areas will be implemented. 06 Coordinated Governance of New Pollutants A number of coordinated governance demonstration projects for emerging pollutants will be implemented in the fields of industrial wastewater, urban sewage, and livestock and poultry farming. Coordinated monitoring and hazard assessment of emerging pollutants will be implemented, and the capacity to detect, track, and respond to emerging pollutants will be improved. National and basin-level technology centers for emerging pollutant management will be established. Chapter 49 Enhanced Diversity, Stability, and Sustainability of Ecosystems We will uphold the integrated protection and systematic governance of mountains, rivers, forests, farmland, lakes, grasslands, and deserts, and coordinate natural recovery with artificial restoration. Greater emphasis will be placed on quality improvement, industry development, and people’s benefit, and an overarching pattern of protection and governance from the mountains to the sea will be established. Section 1 Consolidation and Optimization of the Ecological Security Barrier We will make coordinated efforts to advance the major projects for the protection and restoration of important ecosystems, continuously consolidating the national ecological security barrier system centered on the “Three Core Zones and Four Ecological Belts” framework. We will work to implement the sixth phase of the shelterbelt program in Northwest, North, and Northeast China, with decisive victories in the three landmark campaigns being achieved. Ecological protection on the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau will be further advanced, and the management of soil erosion and rocky desertification in key areas will be strengthened. Large-scale national land greening actions will be carried out in a scientific manner. Targeted forest quality improvement 150 and the construction of national reserve forests will be advanced, with a goal of achieving a total forest stock volume of 22.4 billion cubic meters. Grassland ecological restoration and rational use will be coordinated while strengthening the protection and restoration of wetlands. The management of over-abstraction of surface water and over-extraction of groundwater will be advanced, and ecological restoration of historically abandoned mines will be carried out. Section 2 Comprehensive Advancement of the Nature Reserve System The integration and optimization of nature reserves will be implemented, with tiered and zoned management and control being put into practice, and the nature reserve system with national parks as the primary component will be established and improved. New national parks will be established in an orderly manner, and the ecological service functions of nature reserves and natural parks will be enhanced. The major project for biodiversity conservation will be implemented. With a focus on the protection of flagship species and key species, the protection and restoration of important habitats, ecological corridors, and migratory bird flyway corridors will be strengthened. The protection of aquatic organisms in the Yangtze River will be continuously strengthened. The national botanical garden system will be built, and the protection of ancient and notable trees will be strengthened. Forest and grassland fire prevention and suppression, as well as the prevention and control of harmful organisms, will be strengthened, and the monitoring and control of invasive alien species will be reinforced. Section 3 Improvement of Ecological Protection Mechanisms We will uphold equal emphasis on strict constraints and enhanced incentives, and stimulate the intrinsic motivation of the whole of society to protect ecosystems. The ecological protection red line management system will be strictly implemented. The investigation and remediation of ecological damage problems will be strengthened, and assessments of the effectiveness of ecological protection and restoration will be conducted. The natural resource asset property rights and management system will be improved, and asset surveys, accounting, rights confirmation, and registration will be comprehensively advanced. The diversified ecological compensation mechanism will be 151 improved. The transfer payment policies for key ecological function zones and the compensation policies for important ecosystems such as forests and grasslands will be improved. The dynamic adjustment mechanism for compensation standards will be improved. Horizontal ecological compensation will be thoroughly carried out with a focus on river basins. Market-based ecological compensation will be developed, and integrated ecological compensation approaches will be explored. The channels for realizing the value of ecological products will be expanded according to local conditions. The ecological and environmental damage compensation system will be improved. The reform of the collective forest rights system and the state-owned forest area system will be deepened, and the development of modern state-owned forest farms will be accelerated. Box 22: Ecological Protection and Restoration 01 Sixth Phase of the Shelterbelt Program in Northwest, North, and Northeast China Focusing on building a solid northern ecological security barrier, the campaign for the Yellow River “ji-shaped bend” region will be conducted, the annihilation campaign for the Horqin and Hunshandake sandy lands will be pursued, and the blocking campaign at the edge of the Hexi Corridor- Taklimakan Desert will be waged. A forest and grassland coverage rate of 40.9% in the shelterbelt program in Northwest, North, and Northeast China will be achieved. A treatment rate of 67% for treatable desertified land will be achieved. A comprehensive vegetation coverage of desertified land of 22% will be achieved, and the ecological protection and restoration of the Yellow River key ecological zone, the northern sand-prevention belt, and the north- eastern forest belt will be promoted. 02 Ecological Protection and Restoration of the Qinghai-Xizang Plateau Ecological Barrier Zone With the goal of accelerating the building of a national model for ecological 152 civilization, protection of plateau forests, meadow grasslands, snow-capped mountains, glaciers, and permafrost will be strengthened. The management of black-soil-patch degraded grasslands and desertified grasslands will be intensified. The comprehensive management of desertified land and the restoration of the ecological functions of important wetlands will be advanced. The protection and support system for the Sanjiangyuan area, known as China’s Water Tower, will be improved. The restoration of 2.5 million hectares of degraded grassland will be completed, and comprehensive management of 1 million hectares of desertified land will be achieved. 03 Ecological Protection and Restoration of the Yangtze River Key Ecological Zone The comprehensive management of soil erosion and rocky desertification will be strengthened, and the ecological protection and restoration of river and lake wetlands, including Poyang Lake and Dongting Lake, will be promoted. Forest tending and the renovation of low-quality and low-efficiency forests will be implemented, with 6 million hectares of soil erosion management area and 1.3 million hectares of rocky desertification management area to be added. 04 Ecological Protection and Restoration of the Southern Hilly and Mountainous Zone The shelter forest system will be improved, and rocky desertification management in karst areas will be advanced. The protection and restoration of important wetlands will be strengthened, and the ecological quality of key areas, including the Nanling Mountains, Wuyi Mountains, and the Hunan- Guangxi karst area, will be continuously improved. A total of 300,000 hectares of rocky desertification management area will be added, and 110,000 hectares of forestation and reforestation will be completed. 153 05 Coastal Zone Ecological Protection and Restoration Focusing on building a harmonious, safe, and resilient coastal ecological security barrier, damaged and degraded shorelines and ecosystems will be restored, and comprehensive management of ecological disasters, such as Ulva prolifera green tides, will be carried out. The quality and stability of typical ecosystems, including mangroves, coral reefs, and seagrass beds, will be improved. A total of 20,000 hectares of coastal wetlands will be remediated and restored, and 400 kilometers of coastline will be restored. 06 Nature Reserve System Construction and Wildlife Protection The protection and management, scientific research and monitoring, science education and outreach capacity of national parks and other nature reserves will be improved, and the establishment of national botanical gardens, including those at Chenshan, Shanghai and Xishuangbanna, will be advanced. The restoration of important habitats for wild animals and plants will be strengthened, and rescue and rehabilitation centers for rare and endangered wildlife, as well as germplasm breeding and rewilding release bases, will be built. Chapter 50 Accelerated Formation of Green Production and Living Patterns We will prioritize conservation, strengthen policy incentives, guide participation from all sectors of society, and accelerate the green and low-carbon transformation of development patterns. Through these efforts, new green production methods and new green ways of living will be fostered. Section 1 Greater Conservation and More Intensive Utilization of Resources The systems for total resource management and comprehensive conservation will be improved, with full-process management and full-chain conservation of water, land, mineral, and other resources being strengthened. The level of intensive and safe utilization of water resources will be improved. The rigid constraint system for water resources will be comprehensively implemented, with efforts made to strengthen 154 agricultural water conservation and efficiency improvement, industrial water conservation and emission reduction, and urban water conservation and loss reduction. Water consumption per unit of GDP will be reduced by 10%, and the effective utilization coefficient of farmland irrigation water will be raised to 0.6. The utilization efficiency of construction land will be improved. Land-saving technologies and land-saving approaches will be promoted and applied, and the scale of new construction land will be controlled to within 26 million mu. We will improve the comprehensive utilization of mineral resources while advancing green exploration and green mine development in an all-round way. The development of the circular economy will be promoted by improving the waste recycling and utilization system. In addition, on the premise of ensuring zero imports of solid waste, the import and utilization of high-quality overseas recycled raw materials will be advanced in an orderly manner. The remanufacturing industry will be developed and expanded. In doing so, an annual utilization volume of bulk solid waste of approximately 4.5 billion tons will be achieved. Section 2 Improvement of the Green Development Policy System Incentive mechanisms for protection and investment will be innovated, and fiscal, tax, financial, investment, pricing, science and technology, and environmental protection policies that promote green and low-carbon development will be implemented. The green tax system will be optimized, while carrying out pilot programs for the collection of environmental protection taxes on volatile organic compounds and implementing tax incentives supporting resource conservation and green product use. We will enrich green financial products and services, orderly advancing the development of carbon financial products and derivative instruments. The green finance assessment and evaluation system for financial institutions will be improved, aiming to encourage an increased proportion of investment in green and low-carbon fields. The green certificate trading mechanism will be improved, and the pricing policies that encourage flexible power sources to participate in system regulation will be refined. Efforts will be made to establish and optimize the green and low-carbon standards system and advance the development of international rules and standards and their mutual alignment and 155 recognition. Section 3 National Green and Low-Carbon Actions We will vigorously advocate a simple, moderate, green, low-carbon, civilized, and healthy approach to living and consumption. The public will be guided to conserve water and electricity, oppose extravagance and waste, promote the “Clean Plate Campaign,” resist excessive packaging, reduce the use of single-use products, accelerate the development of bamboo as a substitute for plastics, and give priority to green travel. Enterprises will be encouraged to improve their green design and manufacturing capabilities, so as to reduce energy and resource consumption and ecological and environmental impacts across the full product life cycle. The level of waste classification and resource utilization will be improved. The green consumption incentive mechanism will be improved, and the scope and scale of government procurement of green products will be expanded. Part Fourteen Modernization of the National Security System and Capacity to Build a Peaceful China at a Higher Level We will resolutely implement the holistic approach to national security, accelerate the building of a new security architecture, strengthen the strategic initiative in safeguarding and shaping national security, follow the path of socialist social governance with Chinese characteristics, and ensure that society is both vibrant and well-ordered. Chapter 51 Enhanced National Security System and Capacity Building We will uphold the approach of strategy as the guide, policy as the instrument, rule of law as the guarantee, and risk prevention and control as the ultimate objective to consolidate the centralized, unified, highly effective, and authoritative national security leadership system. National security strategies will be formulated and implemented, with the national security rule-of-law system, strategic system, policy system, and risk 156 prevention and control system being improved. The coordination mechanisms for key areas and major special items in national security will be strengthened, and emergency response effectiveness will be improved. The national security accountability system will be implemented. Full-chain and full-element coordinated linkage will be promoted to form systemic synergy. Efforts will be made to strengthen national security capacity building in key areas and forge national security capabilities that are combat-ready and practically useful, with particular emphasis on safeguarding the major security concerns that bear on the country’s long-term stability, the health and stability of the economy, and the people’s peace and contentment in their daily lives. The safeguarding of political security will be placed at the top of the agenda. Specifically, we will resolutely uphold the security of state power, the institutional system, and ideology, and sternly crack down upon infiltration, sabotage, subversion, and separatist activities by hostile forces. We will consolidate foundational support for national security while strengthening technology empowerment, and national security capacity building in emerging fields. The security of national secrets in key areas will be safeguarded. National security mechanisms relating to foreign affairs will be improved with an overseas security protection system being established. Efforts to counter sanctions, interference, and “long-arm jurisdiction” will be strengthened, and international law enforcement and security cooperation will be deepened. National security education will be strengthened to fortify a strong people’s line of defense. Chapter 52 Safeguarding of National Economic Security We will focus on key categories to strengthen strategic material security, systemically important fields to forestall and defuse major risks, new industries, new business forms, and new application scenarios to improve risk prevention and control capacity in weak areas. We will use precise gap-filling to drive an across-the-board improvement in security assurance capacity. Section 1 Enhancement of Food Security Assurance Capacity We will uphold the principles of self-reliance as the primary approach, domestic production as the foundation, capacity assurance, moderate imports, and science and 157 technology support to improve the coordinated assurance capacity across the full chain of grain production, procurement, storage, processing, and marketing, and ensure basic self-sufficiency in grain and absolute security in staple food supplies. The joint Party and government accountability requirements for farmland protection and food security will be strictly fulfilled, and the farmland red line will be strictly observed. Grain procurement, marketing, and reserve management will be strengthened. A relatively stable scale of government grain reserves will be maintained. The regulatory and adjustment function of reserves will be strengthened, and the new-model grain supervision approach will be improved. The high-quality grain project will be further implemented, with advanced quality and efficiency improvements in grain circulation. Full-chain post-harvest grain saving and loss reduction will be advanced, and the National Whole Grain Action Plan will be implemented. The chemical fertilizer reserve system will be improved, and supply assurance and price stabilization for potash fertilizers, phosphate fertilizers, and similar products will be strengthened. Stable and reliable overseas supply channels will be established to advance the diversification of agricultural product imports and import scarce quality varieties in appropriate quantities, so as to promote the coordination of trade and production. Section 2 Strengthening of Energy and Resource Supply Security We will uphold the principles of domestic self-reliance as the foundation, gap-filling, diversified assurance, and strengthening reserves, and will strengthen the energy production, supply, storage, and marketing system. Autonomous assurance of core oil and gas demand will be upheld. The medium-to-long-term strategic action for increasing oil and gas reserves and production will be implemented. Annual crude oil production will be stabilized at approximately 200 million tons, and natural gas production will grow steadily. Reserves of coal-to-oil-and-gas production capacity and technology will be strengthened. The coordination between government reserves and enterprise reserves will be strengthened. The scale of national petroleum reserves will be expanded, and a more flexible rotation and mobilization mechanism will be established. We will enhance natural gas reserve regulation and assurance capability, and improve the coal reserve 158 system. The medium-to-long-term contract system for energy supply assurance will be improved. The emergency power dispatch mechanism and backup power configuration will be perfected, with energy demand-side management being strengthened. The exploration, development, and stockpiling of strategic mineral resources will be strengthened by further implementing the new round of strategic action for mineral exploration breakthroughs while coordinating and strengthening the reserves of products, production capacity, and production sites. The construction of bulk commodity storage and transport bases will be promoted, and the security risk monitoring, early warning, and emergency supply capability for strategic mineral resources will be improved. International cooperation in energy and resource development will be strengthened, and the security of strategic corridors will be safeguarded. Section 3 Long-Term Mechanisms for Forestalling and Defusing Risks in Key Areas We will strengthen source-level prevention and control, anticipatory assessment and early warning, and early correction. We will make coordinated efforts to advance the orderly defusing of risks in real estate, local government debt, small and medium-sized financial institutions, and other areas to strictly guard against systemic risks. The supervision of systemically important financial institutions will be improved, and macro- prudential management in key areas, such as financial markets and cross-border capital flows, will be strengthened. A comprehensive local debt monitoring and supervision system and a long-term mechanism for forestalling and defusing hidden debt risks will be established and improved. Fiscal and financial discipline will be strictly enforced. The accumulation of new implicit local government debt will be resolutely curbed. The structure of central and local government debt will be optimized, and the reform and transformation of local government financing vehicles will be accelerated. Financial institutions will be supported in conducting capital replenishment in a prudent and orderly manner. The risk resolution mechanism for small and medium-sized financial institutions will be improved, and risk resolution resources and tools will be enriched. The Financial Stability Guarantee Fund, the Deposit Insurance Fund, and other industry 159 guarantee funds will be replenished. The coordination between central and local financial regulation will be strengthened. We will improve the mechanism for protecting the rights and interests of financial consumers and severely crack down on illegal financial activities. Financial security under conditions of openness will be strengthened, and the monitoring, early warning, and response mechanism for cross-border capital flows will be improved. Section 4 Enhancement of Cybersecurity Assurance Capacity We will deepen the comprehensive governance of cyberspace security and accelerate the building of the national cybersecurity defense system. The foundational systems for the security protection of critical information infrastructure, cybersecurity review, and security assessments of cloud computing services will be improved. Laws and regulations on internet content management and network platform governance will be improved. Cyber-related illegal and criminal activities will be severely cracked down upon, and personal information protection will be strengthened. The series of “Qinglang” special campaigns will continue to be conducted to address online rumors, cyberbullying, and other forms of disorder, cultivating a clean and wholesome cyberspace environment. We will support cybersecurity technology innovation and industry development, and encourage the development of secure and trustworthy information products and services. The building of the disaster recovery and backup system will be advanced, and cybersecurity protection for industrial control systems and for new technologies and new applications will be strengthened. We will participate deeply in global cyberspace governance and the formulation of international rules and will actively expand international cybersecurity cooperation. Chapter 53 Improvement of Public Safety Governance We will improve the public safety system, drive the transformation of the public safety governance model towards ex-ante prevention, and effectively safeguard the lives and property of the people. Section 1 Strengthening of Food and Drug Safety Regulation 160 We will improve the full-chain, full-process regulatory mechanism for food and drugs, and enhance the food and drug safety accountability system. Food safety regulations from farm to table will be improved. Risk source control will be strengthened, the level of collaborative regulation and smart regulation will be improved, and the governance of pesticide residues in key-issue agricultural products will be deepened. Strict and efficient drug regulation will be improved. The drug standards improvement action plan will be further implemented, and the sampling inspection of high-risk products will be strengthened. The quality and effectiveness of consistency evaluations of generic drug quality and therapeutic efficacy will be improved, and post-market clinical use data monitoring will be strengthened. The food and drug safety responsibilities of industry regulators, territorial administrations, and enterprises will be fulfilled, with the punishment of illegal and criminal conduct being intensified. We will strictly regulate the R&D and application of biotechnology while improving the capability for storage and safety management of biological data resources. Section 2 Improvement of Workplace Safety Standards We will strictly implement the requirements for joint Party and government accountability for workplace safety and the “Three Managements and Three Musts” requirement (those who manage the industry must manage safety, those who manage business must manage safety, and those who manage production and operation must manage safety), and effectively prevent and contain major and serious accidents. The intrinsic safety level of critical infrastructure will be raised. The phasing out and replacement of high-risk processes and equipment in mining, hazardous chemicals, special equipment, and other sectors will be accelerated. Safety training for principal responsible persons in production and business entities and for workers in special categories will be strengthened. The mechanisms for workplace safety risk investigation, rectification, and reverse accountability will be improved. Enterprises will be supervised and urged to improve their workplace safety management systems to improve the capacity for workplace safety risk prevention and emergency response to accidents and disasters. The quality and effectiveness of workplace safety law enforcement will be 161 improved. A list of priority inspection items will be established for each industry, and central-level workplace safety assessment and inspection tours will be rigorously conducted. Section 3 Improvement of the Emergency Management System We will uphold the principles of putting the people first and life first, and will work to integrally enhance the capacities for disaster prevention and reduction, disaster- resistant fortification, and disaster relief and support, so as to effectively reduce losses from all types of disasters and accidents. Disaster monitoring, forecasting, and early warning will be strengthened, and round-the-clock real-time monitoring and early warning capacity will be improved. The fortification standards for critical infrastructure in important cities and disaster-prone areas will be reasonably raised, and the construction of urban dual-use (peacetime-emergency) public infrastructure will be advanced. Emergency management reform will be deepened, with the emergency command mechanism within the comprehensive safety and emergency response framework being improved. The capacities for disaster prevention, mitigation, and relief, and for responding to major unexpected public events will be improved. We will work to build up the national comprehensive fire and rescue forces, optimize the structural layout of professional rescue teams, and improve the rescue capacity under extreme conditions. The primary-level emergency capacity enhancement action will be implemented, and the integrated emergency response capacity and the community-wide disaster prevention and avoidance capacity at the primary level will be improved. The building and management of the emergency plan system will be strengthened, with the mechanisms for diversified emergency material reserves and rapid mobilization and delivery being improved. The catastrophe risk protection system and risk-sharing mechanisms will be improved. Chapter 54 Improvement of the Social Governance System We will uphold systemic governance, law-based governance, comprehensive governance, and source-level governance, improve the social governance system of joint construction, joint governance, and shared benefits, and perfect social work 162 institutional mechanisms and the system of policies, laws, and regulations for social governance, so as to advance the modernization of social governance. Section 1 Consolidation of the Foundation of Primary-Level Social Governance We will uphold and develop the “Fengqiao Experience” for the new era and improve the urban and rural primary-level governance system that combines self-governance, rule of law, and rule of virtue under Party organization leadership. We will strengthen Party-building guidance for primary-level governance and primary-level political power building. Specifically, we will fully implement the list of responsibilities for township (sub- district) functions and improve the admission system for village (community) work matters. We will also implement the practices of going into communities to communicate the Party’s lines and policies, carry out research and studies, address people’s complaints, and conduct field work, while promoting Party-led governance at the primary level, whereby competent government departments respond to requests from sub-district/township offices to address pressing local issues. The centre of gravity for social governance and services will be shifted downwards to the primary level, and primary-level service management capacity allocation will be strengthened. Service facilities and funding guarantee mechanisms will be improved, the urban and rural community governance system will be improved, and the primary-level governance platform based on grid management, fine-grained services, and IT-enabled support will be improved. The working mechanisms for engaging and serving the people will be improved, and the people’s foundation of social governance will be consolidated. The principal role of the people will be given full play, with all parties guided to participate in social governance in an orderly manner. The building of the social worker workforce will be strengthened to improve professional services. Online and offline coordinated governance will be advanced. Efforts will be made to strengthen the functionality of public service platforms, such as citizens’ hotlines, to put into practice the principle of “when the people call, we respond.” Section 2 Enhancement of Governance Effectiveness in Emerging Areas We will strengthen Party-building work in new economic organizations, new social 163 organizations, and new employment groups, further expand the organizational and work coverage of the Party, and strengthen and improve political guidance and service management of all types of social groups. The quality of Party-building work in non- public-sector enterprises will be improved, and differentiated guidance on Party-building work in mixed-ownership enterprises will be strengthened, with a particular focus on Party-building in commercial districts, office buildings, and industrial parks. We will strengthen the cultivation and management of social organizations while promoting the reform and development of industry associations and chambers of commerce. The management of volunteer service organizations will be strengthened, with incentive and commendation mechanisms being improved, to develop volunteerism. Service management, care, and support for new employment groups will be strengthened. Section 3 Effective Safeguarding of Social Security and Stability We will improve the mechanisms for correctly handling contradictions among the people under new circumstances, unblock and standardize channels for the expression of public demands, the coordination of interests, and the protection of rights and interests, and actively promote the source-level, multi-channel, and orderly resolution of contradictions and disputes. The handling of petitions and complaints in accordance with the law will be advanced. Leadership cadres will continue to receive petitioners and conduct visits to communities, with the resolution of prominent petition-related contradictions being deepened. The social psychological service system and crisis intervention mechanism will be improved. The comprehensive social security prevention and control system and its capacity will be strengthened to fulfil responsibilities for maintaining social stability. People’s self-defense forces and mass-prevention-and- control forces will be further developed. We will intensify efforts to improve the standardized mechanism for combating organized crime and eliminating evil forces, and to prevent and crack down on telecommunications and internet fraud, drug-related crimes, and other such offenses. The standardized development of comprehensive governance centers will be advanced. The criminal policy of combining leniency with severity will be fully and accurately implemented. Violations of law and criminal acts will 164 be punished in accordance with the law, and the quality and effectiveness of criminal sanction enforcement will be improved. The building of digital platforms for political and legal work will be advanced. Box 23: Enhancement of Security Assurance Capacity in Key Areas 01 Grain Reserves We will consolidate the layout, construction, and upgrading of a number of grain storage facilities and steadily increase the scale of high-standard grain silos. Grain storage and logistics facilities at many ports and border crossings will be upgraded and renovated, and the efficiency of grain transit and onward transfer will be improved. Grain emergency assurance capacity will be improved. 02 Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, and Reserves We will build oil and gas bases in the Ordos Basin, Xinjiang, and Bohai Bay, and natural gas bases in the Sichuan-Chongqing area and the East China Sea. Coalbed methane development in the eastern part of the Ordos Basin will be promoted. Major petroleum reserve projects will be built, and gas storage facilities will be constructed at Daqing Shengping, Changqing Yulin Leilongwan, SWOG Wanshunchang, and Xinjiang Baolang. 03 Coal-to-Oil-and-Gas Bases We will advance the construction of strategic coal-to-oil-and-gas bases such as Inner Mongolia Ordos, Shaanxi Yulin, Xinjiang Zhundong, and Xinjiang Hami, and properly ensure project reserves and resource reservation. 04 New Round of Mineral Exploration Breakthroughs Focusing on scarce energy minerals, scarce metallic and non-metallic minerals, and advantageous minerals, we will substantially improve the coverage of regional geological surveys and mineral resource surveys. We will improve the diversified exploration investment mechanism with intensified efforts made to explore in key exploration areas and in the deeper sections of important mines to develop several reserve mineral sites. 05 Strategic Material Reserves and Emergency Rescue 165 We will build and upgrade a number of strategic material reserve bases. We will strengthen the construction of national regional emergency rescue centers, upgrade and renovate national natural disaster engineering rescue bases, and improve emergency rescue capacity in high natural-disaster-risk areas. The building of key aviation emergency rescue forces will be strengthened. 06 Disaster Monitoring and Forecasting System We will build an earth system data platform and strengthen the building of the monitoring, forecasting, and early warning system for meteorological, hydrological, geological, seismic, and other disasters. Ocean observation, forecasting, and early warning capabilities will be improved. Part Fifteen Achieving the Centenary Goals of the People’s Liberation Army and Modernizing National Defense and the Armed Forces We will act on Xi Jinping Thought on Strengthening the Military and carry out the military strategy for the new era. We will ensure that the Party exercises absolute leadership over the people’s armed forces, and the system of ultimate responsibility resting with the chairman of the Central Military Commission must be implemented. In accordance with the new “Three-Step strategy for modernizing national defense and the armed forces, we will continue to enhance political loyalty of the armed forces, strengthen the military through reform and technology, train high-caliber military personnel, and run the military in accordance with the law. We will simultaneously conduct operations, boost combat readiness, and enhance military capabilities. We will accelerate integrated military development through mechanization, informatization, and intelligentization, enhancing the military’s strategic capacity to defend our national sovereignty, security, and development interests. Chapter 55 Enhancement of the Quality and Effectiveness of National Defense and Military Modernization We will accelerate the modernization of military theory, organization, personnel, 166 weaponry and equipment, and governance, improve the warfighting capacity of the people’s armed forces, and effectively fulfil the mission and tasks of the people’s armed forces in the new era. Section 1 Building of Advanced Combat Capabilities We will strengthen our strategic deterrence forces to ensure global strategic balance and stability. We will advance the scaled, combat-ready, and system-integrated development of new-domain forces with new-type combat capabilities. We will fast- track the development of unmanned, intelligent combat forces and counter-capabilities. We will also upgrade and transform conventional combat forces. We will better coordinate the development and application of the network information system and step up the development and utilization of data resources, so as to develop an intelligent military system. We will accelerate the building of a modern logistics system. We will roll out major defense-related projects, accelerate innovation in defense-related science and technology, translate advanced technologies into combat effectiveness, and develop advanced weaponry and equipment. We will refine human resource policies and systems within the military, and elevate the standard of education and talent cultivation in military academies, so as to develop new types of high-caliber, professional military personnel. Projects will be launched to modernize military theory. Strategic and tactical planning will be deepened, combat-oriented military training will be solidly advanced, and the systematic integration of combat capabilities will be strengthened. New models for building and applying combat capabilities will be innovated to enhance our ability to maintain the initiative and shape our posture through targeted operations. Section 2 Modernization of Military Governance We will refine the leadership and management institutions and mechanisms in the people’s armed forces and adjust and improve joint operations system. We will strengthen and improve strategic management, enhance coordination between military operations, capacity building, and combat readiness with a stronger focus on operational requirements. New management approaches will be adopted to ensure better performance of the military system and more efficient use of defense resources. 167 We will strengthen consultation and evaluations for major decisions and supervision over major projects. We will advance budget management reform for military expenditures, refine the military procurement system, and improve the statistical and evaluation system for military development. The policy of building the armed forces through thrift and diligence will be fully implemented to ensure that military development is efficient, cost- effective, and sustainable. We will continue to improve political conduct, carry forward fine traditions, and enforce stricter discipline to rectify misconduct in key sectors and fields. The building of military rule of law will be deeply advanced. We will further enhance law-based military governance, formulate more effective rules and regulations and step up enforcement oversight to improve the Chinese system for law-based administration of military affairs. Chapter 56 Consolidation and Enhancement of the Integrated National Strategies and Strategic Capabilities We will strengthen the coordination of military-civilian strategic planning, the alignment of policies and systems, and the sharing of resources and factor inputs, to promote the advancement of both defense capability and economic strength. We will deepen military-civilian reform, and establish a well-regulated, orderly framework where both sides fulfil their respective functions and work in close concert with each other. We will move faster to build strategic capabilities in emerging domains, improve the channel for military adoption of frontier science and technology achievements from civilian side, promote effective integration and mutual reinforcement between new quality productive forces and new-type combat capabilities. We will develop advanced defense-related science, technology, and industry systems, and improve the planning for these fields. We will enhance the equipment procurement management system and promote interoperability between military and civilian standards. We will strengthen work on submitting and reporting on defense-related military needs, and enhance military-civilian alignment. We will ensure that all major infrastructure facilities meet national defense requirements, so that our strategic needs are better fulfilled in advance and our protection capabilities for important targets are improved. We will uphold the integration 168 between military and civilian sides, and between peacetime and wartime, work faster to develop national defense mobilization capacity and build up reserve forces. We will coordinate national defense mobilization and emergency management systems, and deepen the joint construction and sharing of forces and teams, important facilities, and general-purpose equipment. We will modernize our border, coastal, and air defense, and get the Party, government, military, police, and civilian forces all working together on strengthening border control and security. We will strengthen the honorary incentive and rights and interests protection of soldiers and their families. We will raise public awareness of national defense and further strengthen the unity between the military and the government and between the military and the people. Part Sixteen Development of Whole-Process People’s Democracy and Improvement of the Socialist Rule-of-Law System with Chinese Characteristics We will unswervingly follow the path of socialist political development with Chinese characteristics and uphold the organic unity between leadership by the Party, the running of the country by the people, and law-based governance. We will consolidate and advance a vibrant, stable, and united political situation. Chapter 57 Advancement of Socialist Democracy We will expand the people’s orderly political participation, enrich the democratic forms at all levels, develop broader, fuller, and better whole-process people’s democracy, and ensure that the people exercise democratic election, democratic consultation, democratic decision-making, democratic management, and democratic oversight in accordance with law. The system of people’s congresses will be upheld, improved, and operated to good effect. The system of oversight by people’s congresses over administrative organs, supervisory organs, adjudicatory organs, and procuratorial organs will be improved. We will ensure that state institutions exercise power and fulfil duties in accordance with the law, and that people’s democratic rights and other legitimate rights and interests are protected and guaranteed. The system of multiparty 169 cooperation and political consultation under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party will be upheld and improved. We will give play to the role of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference as a specialized consultative body and strengthen coordination between the various consultation channels to promote extensive, multilevel, and institutionalized development of consultative democracy. We will enhance democracy at the primary level and ensure that the people manage public affairs and run public-interest programs in local communities in accordance with the law. We will improve the system of democratic management of enterprises and public institutions with the workers’ congress as the basic form. We will improve the working mechanisms for drawing on public opinion and pooling the wisdom of the people. The roles of people’s organizations, such as trade unions, Chinese Communist Youth League, and women’s federations, will be brought into better play, and stronger policy support will be provided to build up the ranks of industrial workers, promote youth development, and advance the cause of women and children. We will promote all-round development of human rights. We will refine our approach to building a broad united front with the aim of consolidating and developing the broadest possible patriotic united front. A stronger sense of community for the Chinese nation will be forged, and the community of the Chinese nation will be further developed. We will ensure that religions in China are Chinese in orientation and strengthen law-based governance of religious affairs. We will fully implement the Party’s policy on overseas Chinese affairs to pool the support and strength of Chinese nationals residing abroad. We will give play to the connecting role of clan members and relatives, and root-seeking culture. Chapter 58 Advancement of the Comprehensive Rule of Law We will advance law-based governance on all fronts. We will make coordinate efforts to advance sound legislation, strict law enforcement, impartial administration of justice, and observance of the law by all. We will better leverage the safeguarding role of the rule of law in consolidating foundations, stabilizing expectations, and benefiting the long term, to build a socialist rule-of-law country at a higher level. We will step up efforts to implement the Constitution and laws and to oversee compliance with them, while also 170 refining the institutional mechanisms for upholding unity in the rule of law. We will strengthen legislative planning and legislative review and expand the channels and methods for public participation in legislation to improve the quality of legislation. We will work faster to revise laws and regulations in the fields such as finance and public tendering and bidding. We will strive to build a law-based government, ensure full implementation of the filing and review system for administrative normative documents, and improve the mechanisms for facilitating the substantive resolution of administrative disputes. We will enhance the intensity of law enforcement in key areas closely related to the vital interests of the people and strengthen collaboration and oversight in cross- departmental law enforcement and judicial activities. We will better regulate the exercise of judicial power, refine the systems through which judicial justice is delivered and evaluated, and ensure the impartiality, stability, and authority of judicial decisions. Rights to personal safety, property, and personal dignity will be protected in accordance with the law. Procuratorial oversight and public interest litigation will be strengthened. The national law enforcement system will be improved to effectively address the difficulties in enforcing rulings. We will work faster to improve the system and capacity for ensuring the rule of law in foreign affairs. Mediation, arbitration, and litigation mechanisms for international commercial disputes will be improved, and support will be provided to let the International Organization for Mediation (IOMed) play a better role. Oversight and inspection will be conducted to ensure that leading officials act in accordance with the law, and the mechanisms for comprehensively assessing the implementation of the rule of law will be improved. We will deeply advance the building of a law-based society, speedily develop legal service teams including lawyers, improve universally accessible public legal services, and strengthen rule of law education and awareness. We will foster a favorable environment for ensuring that the rule of law is upheld, rules are observed, contracts are honored, and justice is safeguarded throughout society. 171 Part Seventeen Upholding and Improvement of the Policy of One Country, Two Systems and Advancement of National Reunification We will unswervingly safeguard and promote the long-term prosperity and stability of Hong Kong and Macao and unswervingly advance the great cause of national reunification. We will join hands to accomplish the great endeavor of national rejuvenation. Chapter 59 Promotion of Long-Term Prosperity and Stability in Hong Kong and Macao We will resolutely implement the policy of One Country, Two Systems, under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong and the people of Macao administer Macao, both with a high degree of autonomy. We will see that Hong Kong and Macao are administered by patriots, ensure that both special administrative regions are more effectively governed in accordance with the law, and promote their economic and social development. We will ensure that Hong Kong and Macao give full play to their unique advantages and important roles of being backed by the motherland and connected to the world. Section 1 Consolidation and Enhancement of the Competitive Advantages of Hong Kong and Macao We will support Hong Kong in consolidating and enhancing its status as an international finance, shipping, and trade center as well as an international aviation hub. Hong Kong’s functions as a global offshore renminbi business hub, an international asset and wealth management center, and an international risk management center will be strengthened. An ecosystem for bulk commodity trading and a high-value-added supply-chain services center will be developed. We will support Hong Kong in developing into an international innovation and technology center, further building centers for international legal and dispute-resolution services, regional intellectual 172 property trading, and cultural and artistic exchanges between China and the rest of the world, as well as accelerating the development of the Northern Metropolis. We will support Macao in appropriately diversifying its economic development and better play its roles as a world tourism and leisure center, a service platform for commercial and trade cooperation between China and Portuguese-speaking countries, and an exchange and cooperation center where mainstream Chinese culture and diverse cultures coexist. We will also support Macao in enhancing its competitiveness in industries including traditional Chinese medicine and grand health, specialized finance, high technology, and convention and trade. We will support Hong Kong and Macao in building themselves into international hubs for high-caliber talent. Section 2 Integration of Hong Kong and Macao into the Overall National Development Agenda We will strengthen the cooperation between the mainland and Hong Kong and Macao in economic and trade affairs, science and technology, culture, and other fields. We will improve policies and measures to make it more convenient for people from Hong Kong and Macao to develop careers and live on the mainland. We will promote the two regions to connect their financial markets with that of the mainland in an orderly manner and deepen industry-academia-research innovation collaboration with the mainland. Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao cooperation will be deepened and sustained efforts will be made to drive breakthroughs in cooperation in key areas. We will work to promote the coordinated development of ports, airports, and rail transits, build the Guangzhou- Zhuhai (Macao) high-speed railway, and drive forward the preliminary work on the Hong Kong-Shenzhen Western Rail Link. We will deepen the integrated development between Hengqin and Macao and build the Qianhai, Nansha, and Hetao major cooperation platforms to a high standard. The Hengqin pre-clearance cargo station for Macao International Airport will be constructed, and the Macao-Hengqin International Education (University) Town will be advanced to encourage higher education institutions from Macao to build campus in Hengqin. We will improve the mechanisms enabling Hong Kong and Macao to play a greater role in China’s opening up, support their in-depth 173 participation in the high-quality joint construction of the Belt and Road, and promote them to leverage their professional services advantages to assist enterprises in going global. The important role of Hong Kong and Macao as windows for the exchange and mutual learning between Chinese and Western civilizations will be given full play. Chapter 60 Peaceful Development of Cross-Strait Relations and Advancement of National Reunification We must fully implement the Party’s overall policy for the new era on resolving the Taiwan question, adhere to the one-China principle and the 1992 Consensus, resolutely fight against separatist forces aimed at “Taiwan independence.” We must oppose external interference, safeguard peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait, and firmly maintain the initiative and the ability to steer in cross-Strait relations. We must enhance the wellbeing of compatriots on both sides of the Strait and steadfast guardianship of the common home of the Chinese nation. Section 1 Promotion of Cross-Strait Economic Cooperation We will continue to introduce and implement policies and measures that benefit Taiwan compatriots and Taiwan-funded enterprises, guiding them to actively integrate with and contribute to the construction of the new development paradigm. We will support Taiwan-funded enterprises in putting down roots and developing on the mainland, participating in national regional development strategies, joining the Belt and Road construction, and strengthening industrial cooperation, to drive the building of a common market across the Strait. We will support Fujian Province in building a high- quality demonstration zone for integrated cross-Strait development, promote Pingtan, Kunshan, Dongguan, and other areas to establish key cross-Strait cooperation platforms as well as industrial cooperation zones. Support will be provided for the establishment of a multi-tiered cross-Strait financial market, and measures will be taken to encourage eligible Taiwan-funded enterprises to list on mainland exchanges. Section 2 Deepening of Cross-Strait Exchanges We will improve the institutional arrangements and policies for promoting cross- 174 Strait economic and cultural exchange and cooperation, expand the people movement across the Strait, and promote cross-Strait interaction, exchanges, and integration. Cross-Strait cooperation in education, healthcare, and other sectors will be deepened, as will the sharing of social security and public resources. Cultural exchanges across the Strait will be promoted for people on both sides to work together to preserve and carry forward Chinese culture, and to enhance Taiwan compatriots’ ethnic, cultural, and national identity. Exchanges among youth and grassroots communities will be reinforced and better conditions will be continuously created for Taiwan youth to pursue their dreams on the mainland. We will implement policies designed to ensure equal treatment for Taiwan compatriots, create better conditions for them to study, work, and live on the mainland. We will unite the broad majority of Taiwan compatriots to enhance the well- being of the Chinese people on both sides of the Strait. Part Eighteen Enhancement of Guarantee for Plan Implementation We must uphold and strengthen the Party’s overall leadership, stay committed to strengthening full and rigorous Party self-governance, and see to it that our Party becomes better at providing political leadership and theoretical guidance, organizing the people, and inspiring society, while also improving its ability to lead China’s economic and social development endeavors. We must refine the national system of economic and social development planning to gather a mighty force for advancing Chinese modernization. Chapter 61 Upholding and Strengthening of the Centralized and Unified Leadership of the Party Central Committee We will resolutely safeguard the authority of the Party Central Committee and its centralized, unified leadership, give full expression to the Party’s core leadership in overall planning and coordination, so as to provide a fundamental guarantee for advancing plan implementation. Section 1 Enhancement of Party Leadership Throughout the Full Process of Plan 175 Implementation We will pursue in-depth study and implementation of Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, continuing to apply the Party’s new theories to achieve unity in thinking, will, and action. We will refine the mechanisms through which the Party Central Committee’s major decisions and plans are carried out, so as to enhance the overall coordination and guidance for plan implementation. We will form a work pattern that is characterized by clear division of responsibilities, coordinated linkages, and broad participation, so as to ensure cohesion across different levels and effective implementation. We will improve and implement democratic centralism to ensure that decision-making is sound, democratic, and law-based. We will continue to address formalism to lighten the burdens on community-level officials. Mid-term and final evaluations, as well as significant developments during implementation, will be submitted to the Party Central Committee for instructions in a timely manner. All regions and departments will report on their implementation of plan objectives and tasks as an important component of their work reports to the Party Central Committee. We will take coordinated steps to improve primary-level Party organizations in all sectors, strengthen their political and organizational functions, and give full play to Party members’ exemplary role. Based on the principle of respecting work, knowledge, talent, and creativity, we will harness the drive, enterprise, innovation, and ingenuity of our whole society, and foster a vibrant environment where all our people can realize their potential, put talents to best use, and press ahead with one heart and one mind. Section 2 Comprehensive Enhancement of the Officials’ Capability for Modernization We will follow the right approach in selecting and appointing officials, take political commitment as primary criterion, and strengthen the caliber of leading teams and the officials. We will educate and guide the officials at all levels to establish and practice a correct view of political achievements, to proceed from reality and act in accordance with objective laws, to consciously strive to make achievements for the people and from hard work. We will leverage the correct view of political achievements to drive high- quality, sustainable development, and use concrete performance and results to meet the 176 people’s new demands and new expectations. We will refine a differentiated performance assessment system that is more precise and scientific. We will strengthen education and training for officials and temper them through practice, so that they acquire the skills needed to advance modernization. We will be both strict and caring and place equal emphasis on providing incentives and imposing constraints, so as to unleash the internal drive and collective vitality of our officials. Section 3 Improvement of the Party and State Oversight System We will advance the Party’s full and rigorous self-governance to a higher standard and with more substantive measures. We will improve the oversight system under the Party’s overall leadership that is comprehensive in coverage, authoritative, and effective. We will tighten regulation and oversight over the allocation and exercise of power, and improve the clear, transparent, and traceable institutional mechanisms that unify the authorization, exercise, and constraint of power. We will enhance the enforcement of laws, rules and regulations, and foster a political atmosphere of integrity. We will strengthen the political responsibility to ensure the Party’s full and rigorous self- governance, promote political oversight to be more concrete, precise, and routine, and wield political inspections as a sharp sword. We will continue to steadfastly implement the central Party leadership’s Eight-Point Decision on Improving Work Conduct and resolutely stamp out all forms of misconduct. Consistent and unremitting efforts will be made to keep improving conduct. The fight against corruption is always ongoing and requires us to remain sober-minded and steadfast. We must take coordinated steps to ensure that officials do not have the audacity, opportunity, or desire to commit corruption, make solid efforts to eliminate the conditions that breed corruption, and see that we have the resolve to keep waging this protracted, tough, and all-out battle. We will firmly pursue the path of combating corruption with Chinese characteristics. The collusion between business and government officials that damage the political ecosystem and economic development environment will be investigated and punished with rigor. Corruption in areas with high concentrations of power, dense capital flows, and rich resource endowments will be strictly investigated. New forms of corruption and hidden corruption 177 will be effectively prevented and controlled, and persistent efforts will be made to address misconduct and corruption problems that occur in the immediate vicinity of the people. We will step up oversight over key groups such as chief officials, key minorities, and young officials, and place greater emphasis on both bribe-givers and bribe-takers. National anti-corruption legislation will be advanced. With the Party’s internal oversight as the leading mechanism, we will promote the coordination and alignment of various types of oversight, as well as deepen and expand the cooperative mechanisms between discipline inspection and supervision oversight on the one hand and audit, financial, and accounting oversight and statistical oversight on the other. We will step up anti- corruption international cooperation, establish a unified mechanism for repatriating fugitives, preventing flight, and recovering assets, and make greater efforts to combat cross-border corruption. The reform of discipline inspection and supervisory institutions will be deepened, and efforts will be made to make discipline inspection and supervision more standardized, law-based, and regulated. Chapter 62 Improvement of the Full-Cycle Advancement Mechanisms for Plan Implementation We will implement the Law on National Development Planning, improve the unified planning system, fully mobilize the enthusiasm, initiative, and creativity of the whole society, and effectively and orderly advance the implementation of all objectives and tasks, so as to ensure that all decisions and deployments of the Party Central Committee are effectively carried out. Section 1 Formation of a Unified Planning System We will establish and improve a unified national planning system that is accurately positioned, clearly defined, and with complementary functions, so as to provide effective support for the implementation of national development plans. In accordance with the national development plans, a set of national-level key thematic plans and national-level regional implementation programs will be deployed, formulated, and implemented simultaneously. We will coordinate the compilation of various plans at all levels, with minimum quantity and superior quality, to enhance the coordination and alignment 178 among them and to avoid excessive, redundant, and ineffective planning. We will standardize the procedures for filing and reviewing various plans. Plans submitted to the Party Central Committee and the State Council for approval must be first aligned with the national development plan by the State Council’s development and reform authorities. Provincial-level development plans must be submitted through proper procedures to the State Council’s development and reform authorities for alignment and due implementation. Provincial governments will enhance their guidance of municipal and county plan compilation to ensure that the layout of major industries, major infrastructure, and other elements conforms to national strategic priorities. Annual plans will implement the various plan tasks on a rolling basis, incorporating the principal plan indicators into the annual plan indicator system and ensuring a comprehensive balance from year to year. The regulatory and policy framework supplementing the Law on National Development Planning will be improved, the standardized management of national-level thematic plans will be strengthened, and localities will be encouraged to formulate their own regional development plan regulations based on actual conditions. Section 2 Categorized Implementation of Plan Tasks We will establish and improve the mechanisms for plan implementation and clarify the division of responsibilities for objectives and tasks. All regions and departments will formulate practical, assessable, and detailed arrangements and measures to ensure implementation. For binding indicators and tasks related to public services, ecological and environmental protection, and security safeguards, responsibility will be effectively broken down and assigned. For indicative indicators and tasks related to industrial development and structural adjustment, a favorable policy, institutional, and legal environment will be created to drive implementation. Lists of major engineering projects will be refined, and individual and bundled projects will be advanced through categorized implementation. When conditions are ripe, projects for which preliminary work is to be carried out during the 15th Five-Year Plan period will commence construction following proper procedures. Section 3 Enhancement of Policy Coordination 179 We will improve mechanisms for policy coordination and work collaboration in service of implementing the national development plan. We will use the national development plan as an important basis for assessing the consistency of macro policies and ensure that all types of policies serve the requirements of the national development plan. Medium-term fiscal planning and annual budget arrangements will provide stronger financial guarantees for plan implementation, and central government financial resources will prioritize major strategic tasks, major policy measures, and major engineering projects identified in the plan. Financial policies will actively support key areas of development identified in the plan. We will see to it that projects follow the plan, funds and factors serve the projects, and oversight are conducted over both projects and funds. We will expedite the approval and authorization of major engineering projects identified in the plan, give priority to meeting their planning location, land use, sea use, and funding requirements, and land and other factor requirements of individual major engineering projects will be guaranteed uniformly at the national level. For major projects, concurrent, penetrating oversight and full-process, full-cycle safety management will be strengthened. Section 4 Monitoring, Evaluation, and Oversight of Plan Implementation We will conduct dynamic monitoring, mid-term evaluation, and final evaluation of plan implementation and, based on the findings, strengthen situation tracking and risk analysis, timely propose policies and measures to strengthen and improve plan implementation. Upon approval by the Party Central Committee, we will report the mid- term evaluation results to the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress and the final evaluation report to the National People’s Congress in accordance with the law and voluntarily accept their oversight. When evaluation findings necessitate adjustments to this Plan, the State Council will propose an adjustment proposal and, following approval by the Party Central Committee, submit it to the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress for examination and approval. We will integrate the refinement of Party and state oversight system into plan implementation, give play to the oversight role of discipline inspection, supervisory, and audit authorities, and improve a 180 coordinated oversight mechanism for implementing major tasks across regions and departments. The status of plan implementation will be made public in a timely manner and accept oversight by all sectors of society. 181
